At its simplest, a service worker is a script that runs in the web browser and manages caching for an application.

Service workers function as a network proxy. 

They intercept all outgoing HTTP requests made by the application and can choose how to respond to them.

For example, they can query a local cache and deliver a cached response if one is available. 

Proxying isn't limited to requests made through programmatic APIs, such as fetch; it also includes resources referenced in HTML and even the initial request to index.html. Service worker-based caching is thus completely programmable and doesn't rely on server-specified caching headers.

Unlike the other scripts that make up an application, such as the Angular application bundle, the service worker is preserved after the user closes the tab.

The next time that browser loads the application, the service worker loads first, and can intercept every request for resources to load the application. If the service worker is designed to do so, it can completely satisfy the loading of the application, without the need for the network.

Even across a fast reliable network, round-trip delays can introduce significant latency when loading the application. Using a service worker to reduce dependency on the network can significantly improve the user experience.

# SERVICE WORKERS IN ANGULAR

Angular applications, as single-page applications, are in a prime position to benefit from the advantages of service workers. Angular ships with a service worker implementation. Angular developers can take advantage of this service worker and benefit from the increased reliability and performance it provides, without needing to code against low-level APIs.

Angular's service worker is designed to optimize the end user experience of using an application over a slow or unreliable network connection, while also minimizing the risks of serving outdated content.

# BEFORE YOU START

To make use of all the features of Angular service workers, use the latest versions of Angular and the Angular CLI.

For service workers to be registered, the application must be accessed over HTTPS, not HTTP. Browsers ignore service workers on pages that are served over an insecure connection. The reason is that service workers are quite powerful, so extra care is needed to ensure the service worker script has not been tampered with.

There is one exception to this rule: to make local development more straightforward, browsers do not require a secure connection when accessing an application on localhost.

# BROWSER SUPPORT

To benefit from the Angular service worker, your application must run in a web browser that supports service workers in general. Currently, service workers are supported in the latest versions of Chrome, Firefox, Edge, Safari, Opera, UC Browser (Android version) and Samsung Internet. Browsers like IE and Opera Mini do not support service workers.

If the user is accessing your application with a browser that does not support service workers, the service worker is not registered and related behavior such as offline cache management and push notifications does not happen.

It is highly recommended that you ensure that your application works even without service worker support in the browser. Although an unsupported browser ignores service worker caching, it still reports errors if the application attempts to interact with the service worker. To avoid such an error, check whether the Angular service worker is enabled.
