The ngsw-config.json JSON configuration file specifies which files and data URLs the Angular service worker should cache and how it should update the cached files and data. The Angular CLI processes this configuration file during ng build.

So, by default, what all is being cached by the Service Worker?

Notice that all of the files the browser needs to render this application are cached. The ngsw-config.json boilerplate configuration is set up to cache the specific resources used by the CLI:

 - index.html
 - favicon.ico
 - Build artifacts (JS and CSS bundles)
 - Anything under assets
 - Images and fonts directly under the configured outputPath (by default ./dist/<project-name>/) or resourcesOutputPath.


This is the ngsw-config.json by default - 

    {
        "$schema": "./node_modules/@angular/service-worker/config/schema.json",
        "index": "/index.html",
        "assetGroups": [
            {
            "name": "app",
            "installMode": "prefetch",
            "resources": {
                "files": [
                "/favicon.ico",
                "/index.html",
                "/manifest.webmanifest",
                "/*.css",
                "/*.js"
                ]
            }
            },
            {
            "name": "assets",
            "installMode": "lazy",
            "updateMode": "prefetch",
            "resources": {
                "files": [
                "/assets/**",
                "/*.(svg|cur|jpg|jpeg|png|apng|webp|avif|gif|otf|ttf|woff|woff2)"
                ]
            }
            }
        ]
    }


Here is what each property means.

## index

Specifies the file that serves as the index page to satisfy navigation requests. Usually this is /index.html.

## assetGroups

This field contains an array of asset groups, each of which defines a set of asset resources and the policy by which they are cached. The first asset group that matches the requested resource handles the request. It is recommended that you put the more specific asset groups higher in the list. For example, an asset group that matches /foo.js should appear before one that matches *.js. 

Each asset group specifies both a group of resources and a policy that governs them. This policy determines when the resources are fetched and what happens when changes are detected.

Each AssetGroup is defined by the following asset group properties.

 - name : A name is mandatory. It identifies this particular group of assets between versions of the configuration.
  
 - installMode: The installMode determines how these resources are initially cached. The installMode can be either of two values:
  
    - prefetch (default): Tells the Angular service worker to fetch every single listed resource while it's caching the current version of the application. This is bandwidth-intensive but ensures resources are available whenever they're requested, even if the browser is currently offline.

    - lazy: Does not cache any of the resources up front. Instead, the Angular service worker only caches resources for which it receives requests. This is an on-demand caching mode. Resources that are never requested are not cached. This is useful for things like images at different resolutions, so the service worker only caches the correct assets for the particular screen and orientation.

 - updateMode: For resources already in the cache, the updateMode determines the caching behavior when a new version of the application is discovered. Any resources in the group that have changed since the previous version are updated in accordance with updateMode.

    - prefetch:	Tells the service worker to download and cache the changed resources immediately.
    - lazy:	Tells the service worker to not cache those resources. Instead, it treats them as unrequested and waits until they're requested again before updating them. An updateMode of lazy is only valid if the installMode is also lazy.
  
 - resources: This section describes the resources to cache, broken up into the following groups:

    - files: Lists patterns that match files in the distribution directory. These can be single files or glob-like patterns that match a number of files.

    - urls: Includes both URLs and URL patterns that are matched at runtime. These resources are not fetched directly and do not have content hashes, but they are cached according to their HTTP headers. This is most useful for CDNs such as the Google Fonts service.


# ADDING FONTS TO THE LIST OF RESOURCES TO CACHE

Suppose we have some font that we are getting from Google Fonts and we also want the service worker to cache it. By default, it is not doing it. To do that, we can take the google font URL, and then add it to an array of "urls" at the end of the first assetGroup.

    {
        "name": "app",
        "installMode": "prefetch",
        "resources": {
            "files": [
            "/favicon.ico",
            "/index.html",
            "/manifest.webmanifest",
            "/*.css",
            "/*.js"
            ],
            "urls": [
            "https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Oswald:300,700" <- HERE
            ]
        }
    },

And now, once you build the app, rerun the http-server and do all the things, you will see that now, the font is also being cached by the Service Worker.



