Okay so, what about Dynamic assets? For example, the /posts api call that we are making, which returns us the list of posts. We also want to cache that so that even if there is no network, the application can still show the list of posts using the Service Worker's cache.

We are not going to add something to the assetGroups. Instead, we are going to use a new property named "dataGroups". So, for data that might change frequently, use "dataGroups" property to define the caching behavior.

Just like how "assetGroups" contains an array, "dataGroup" also has an array.

The first data group that matches the requested resource handles the request.

It is recommended that you put the more specific data groups higher in the list. For example, a data group that matches /api/foo.json should appear before one that matches /api/*.json.

# ADDING A NEW DATA GROUP

To cache the dynamic assets and URLs, we can add a new Data Group in the dataGroups array. Here is how we add one -

    "dataGroups": [
            {
            "name": "posts",
            "urls": ["https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/posts"],
            "cacheConfig": {
                "maxSize": 5,
                "maxAge": "6h",
                "timeout": "10s",
                "strategy": "freshness"
            }
        }
    ]

So, let's understand what each property is doing here.


 - name: Similar to assetGroups, every data group has a name which uniquely identifies it.
  
 - urls: A list of URL patterns. URLs that match these patterns are cached according to this data group's policy. Only non-mutating requests (GET and HEAD) are cached.
  
 - cacheConfig: The following properties define the policy by which matching requests are cached.

    - maxSize: The maximum number of entries, or responses, in the cache.
  
    - maxAge: The maxAge parameter indicates how long responses are allowed to remain in the cache before being considered invalid and evicted. maxAge is a duration string, using the unit suffixes such as "d" for Days, "h" for hours, "m" for miniutes, "s" for seconds and "u" for milliseconds.
  
    - timeout: This duration string specifies the network timeout. The network timeout is how long the Angular service worker waits for the network to respond before using a cached response, if configured to do so. Uses the same duration string format like maxAge.
  
    - strategy: The Angular service worker can use either of two caching strategies for data resources : 

        - performance: The default, optimizes for responses that are as fast as possible. If a resource exists in the cache, the cached version is used, and no network request is made. This allows for some staleness, depending on the maxAge, in exchange for better performance. This is suitable for resources that don't change often; for example, user avatar images.
  
        - freshness: Optimizes for currency of data, preferentially fetching requested data from the network. Only if the network times out, according to timeout, does the request fall back to the cache. This is useful for resources that change frequently; for example, account balances.

Here are all the properties of a dataGroup explained - https://angular.dev/ecosystem/service-workers/config#datagroups

And now, if you again build your application, and then run http-server, and do all the things that you did before, now, in the offline mode, we will start seeing the posts as well. Even though there is no network connection, we get the posts because the Service Worker is now caching the response from /posts as well. 
