Let's say we want to build a directive that will highlight an element (adding a background color to it) when we hover over it.

Since it will change the style of the element on the page, it wil be an "Attribute Directive", not a structural one because it is not removing or adding any element on the page.

We can generate a new directive.ts file using the Angular CLI - 

    ng g d <name of directive>

This will give us a new directive.ts file and if we open it, we can see that instead of @Component, this file has @Directive decorator. This marks this class as a Directive. 

Just like a @Component decorator, the @Directive dectorator also has a "selector" parameter. So, we can use this selector any where in the template and Angular will automatically figure out what to do with it, based on the logic we define for this directive in its .ts file.

By default, we will see that the selector is inside square brackets. e.g., if the file name is "highlight.directive.ts", then the selector by default will be - 

    @Directive({
        selector: '[appBasicHighlight]'
    })


# WHAT TYPES OF VALUES SELECTOR CAN HAVE?

It is not necessary that selector always has name inside square brackets. The reason why this is like so by default is because by default, Angular creates an "Attribute" directive and that's why, just like a CSS attribute selector, an attribute directive selector has square brackets so that we can use this as an attribute for any element in the DOM.


If it was like - 

     @Directive({
        selector: 'appBasicHighlight'
    })

Then it would mean that whenever we create an element in dom as <appBasicHighlight></appBasicHighlight>

Then do whatever this file says to do. In simple words, in this case, the selector is for an element in DOM named "appBasicHighlight".

Similarly, it can also be a class e.g. 

    @Directive({
        selector: '.appBasicHighlight'
    })

To summarize, these can be various types of selectors - 

   - element-name: Select by element name.
   - .class: Select by class name.
   -  [attribute]: Select by attribute name.
   -  [attribute=value]: Select by attribute name and value.
   -  :not(sub_selector): Select only if the element does not match the sub_selector.
   -  selector1, selector2: Select if either selector1 or selector2 matches.


# CREATING A BASIC DIRECTIVE

Before we write logic to only style when we hover over the element, let's just create a directive that sets background color on an element.

For that, we would require a reference to that element in the .ts file of directive.

As you might've guessed, the reference will be of an "ElementRef" type. But, we cannot just assign any template variable to DOM and then get a reference because we don't know in how many places we are going to use this directive.

So, we will let Angular do all this so that whenever we use this directive on any element, Angular automatically gives us its reference to do something on it e.g., change its style.

And that's something we can do using "Dependency Injection". We will go through that later. So for now, what we can understand is that we have to tell Angular to give us the "ElementRef" when the directive is used.

We do that in the constructor and provide whatever we want Angular to give us - 

  constructor(private elementRef: ElementRef) {}

So, whenever an element uses this directive, its reference will be provided to us by Angular in a private variable "elementRef".

Now, inside the ngOnInit() of this directive, we can do anything with this reference. Let's say we want to change the background color of this element.

 ngOnInit(): void {
      this.elementRef.nativeElement.style.backgroundColor = "green";
  }

And now, our simple directive is ready which will change the background color of any element on which it is used.

So, now, if we do - 

    <button class="btn btn-primary" appBasicHighlight>
      Click Me
    </button>

Then, the button will have background color of green because we are using the directive here.

# IMPROVING OUR DIRECTIVE USING "RENDERER"

It is not recommended by Angular itself to use reference of elements to directly change their properties in the .ts files. We are doing that above.

The reason is that, if we use ElementRef to modify the DOM, we need to handle things like "sanitization" if we want to avoid the XSS attacks. If we don't do that, then our application is vulnerable to XSS attacks.

As Angular website mentions - 

"Sanitization is the inspection of an untrusted value, turning it into a value that's safe to insert into the DOM. A value that's harmless in CSS is potentially dangerous in a URL."

So, if we cannot use element references, then how to access them in our code? There is another way that Angular offers -> Renderer2.

The Renderer2 allows us to manipulate the DOM elements, without accessing the DOM directly.

To use it, we have to inject its dependency, just like how we injected "ElementRef" dependency.

    constructor(private renderer: Renderer2) {}

Now, instead of directly setting style on the element reference, we let Angular handle the Sanitization by using this renderer.

The renderer offers various methods to use such as - 

    "addClass", "appendChild", "createComment", "createElement", "createText", "setValue", "setStyle", "setProperty", "setAttribute", "removeStyle", "removeClass", "removeChild" 
    and so on...

So in our directive, we can use the "setStyle" method to set the background color of the element we will be referring to using ElemetRef.

    ngOnInit(): void {
    this.renderer.setStyle(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'background-color', 'green');
    }

So, we are not directly setting the style on the element. Instead, we are just using renderer and telling Angular what style to set and what is the value for that style.

Another reason to use a Renderer is that Angular is not limited to run on browsers only. It also works with something like "Service Workers". These are environments where we may not have access to the DOM. So, we will get error in that case because we will be trying to set properties on an element that we simply cannot access.

So in those situations as well, a Renderer will be something that we will be using.

From StackOverFlow - 


    Using the Renderer for manipulating the DOM doesn't break server-side rendering or Web Workers (where direct access to the DOM would break).

    Renderer and ElementRef are not "either this or that", but instead they have to be used together to get full platform abstraction.

    Renderer acts on the DOM and ElementRef is a reference to an element in the DOM the Renderer acts on.