There is another way using which we can listen to Host Events and Bind to Host Properties without using @HostListener or @HostBinding.

And that's using the "host" attribute of the @Component or @Directive Decorator.

So, just like we have "selector" attribute available for @Directive decorator, we also have a "host" attribute like this - 

    @Directive({
        selector: '[appBasicHighlight]'
        host: ___
    })

But, what does it accept as a value? Well, it accepts an object with "key-value" pairs.

The 'host' attribute in the @Component (or @Directive) decorator in Angular allows you to specify event listeners or property bindings for the host element of the component or directive. Essentially, it provides a way to interact with the DOM element that the component or directive is attached to.

So basically, we can do the same thing that we did using @HostListener and @HostBinding.

For example, let's say that we want the background color of the element that is using this directive to be bound to the "backgroundColor" property inside this directive.

So, we can write -

    @Directive({
        selector: '[appBasicHighlight]',
        host: {
            '[style.backgroundColor]': 'backgroundColor'
        }
    })
    export class BasicHighlightDirective implements OnInit {

        @Input('appBasicHighlight') highlightColor: string = 'green';
    
        backgroundColor: string; <- NO MORE @HostBinding DECORATOR USED HERE
    }

And now, we completely got rid of the @HostBinding decorator that we were using.

Similarly, we can also specify event listeners. The previous logic is like this for "mouseenter" event - 

    @HostListener('mouseenter', ['$event.target']) 
    onMouseHover(element) {
        this.backgroundColor = this.highlightColor;
    }

So, we can not add one more key value pair to "host" attribute where the "key" will be the event that we want to bind to (we will use event binding) and the value will be the function that should be called on that event, which in our case is "onMouseHover".

So, we can write -

    @Directive({
        selector: '[appBasicHighlight]',
        host: {
            '[style.backgroundColor]': 'backgroundColor',
            '(mouseenter)': 'onMouseHover()'
        }
    })

And now, we can get rid of @HostListener decorator from "onMouseHover()" function. But, there is one thing worth mentioning.

When using the "host" attribute in Angular, you cannot directly pass arguments like the "event" or the element itself (e.g., the host element). This is a limitation of the host attribute compared to using the "@HostListener" decorator. The host attribute expects simple expressions or method bindings without direct access to the event object or the host element.

So, while in @HostListener, we could do -

    @HostListener('mouseenter', ['$event.target'])
    onMouseHover(target: HTMLElement) {...}

We cannot do this when we are using 'host' attribute. So, if your use case is like such, then @HostListener is the preferred way.

@HostListener is more flexible as it allows passing arguments like the "event" object or the "target".

But in our case, the scenario is pretty simple and we do not need access to "event" or "target" so we can keep using "host" attribute.

Similarly, let's do the same for "mouseleave" event - 

    Directive({
        selector: '[appBasicHighlight]',
        host: {
            '[style.backgroundColor]': 'backgroundColor',
            '(mouseenter)': 'onMouseHover()',
            '(mouseleave)': 'onMouseLeave()'
        }
    })

And so now, we can completely get rid of @HostListener and @HostBinding from our Directive.
  
    onMouseHover() {
        this.backgroundColor = this.highlightColor;
    }

    onMouseLeave() {
        this.backgroundColor = 'transparent';
    }


So, that's another way to bind to the host properties and listen to the host events.


