Alright, we are done with Attribute directives. We now know what are the most common built-in attribute directives and how can we create an attribute directive of our own, act on events, and bind to the host element's properties as well.

Let's now talk about the Structural directives in Angular. As we know, the structural directives are those that change the structure of the DOM that is, add or remove elements.

There are three most common built-in structural directives in Angular - 

1. NgIf 2. NgFor 3. NgSwitch

Also, one thing to note is that, when we use structural directives, we always use them with a star(*) in front of their names.

For example -> *ngIf, *ngFor, *ngSwitch

# WHY A STAR(*) IS USED ?

The star is actually used to tell Angular to treat it as a structural directive, not as an attribute directive or property binding.

if we write ngIf="condition" then Angular cannot know whether we are setting some condition of an attribute directive or whether we are setting some property of the element on which this is used, or whether it is a structural directive.

This star syntax also lets us write lesser code than what we would've required to write.

We know that in Angular, we have <ng-template> that we can use to wrap any part of the template. And if we do that, then that part will not get rendered on the browser unless we tell Angular to do it.

Angular uses this ng-template under the hood when we use *ngIf on any element. How?

We write *ngIf like this -

    <p *ngIf="condition"> Render me if condition is true </p>

Under the hood, Angular takes this code and converts it to -

    <ng-template [ngIf]="condition">
     <p> Render me if condition is true </p>
    </ng-template>

And if you think this [ngIf] syntax looks familiar, then that's because if you look at the official code for "ngIf" directive on github, you'll see that ngIf is actually an attribute directive only -> https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.1.6/packages/common/src/directives/ng_if.ts

    @Directive({
        selector: '[ngIf]',
        standalone: true,
    })

So, in this file, we see that the selector is [ngIf] and that's why when we write *ngIf, Angular takes that part of the template and encloses it inside an ng-template and uses the [ngIf] selector with the condition on it.

But, what happens after it does that?

        constructor(private _viewContainer: ViewContainerRef, templateRef: TemplateRef<NgIfContext<T>>) {
            this._thenTemplateRef = templateRef;
        }

if you look at the constructor of the ng_if.ts file you will see that we are injecting a "templateRef". It means, give me the reference to the <ng-template> on which [ngIf] is used. 

We are also injecting "ViewContainerRef" which is used to actually render the template at some place in the DOM.

    @Input()
    set ngIf(condition: T) {
        this._context.$implicit = this._context.ngIf = condition;
        this._updateView();
    }

And we are using ngIf inside square brackets because there is a setter named "ngIf" in the ng_if.ts file.

We can see that, in this setter, we take the incoming condition that we pass to [ngIf] and then calling the "updateView()" method.

So, this method will evaluate the condition and if the condition is true, it will render whatever is there inside the <ng-template> on the DOM.

So, that's how an *ngIf directive works under the hood.

It means, under the hood, ngIf is an attribute directive only. It's just that we use it with a star so that we tell Angular to do all the <ng-template> trickery under the hood.

This also means, if we want to, we can also write ngIf like this ourselves - 

        <ng-template [ngIf]="condition">
            <p> Render me if condition is true </p>
        </ng-template>


But think about it. We use *ngIf so many times in our components so imagine how many ngTemplate will be there and so, the code will become messy.

That's why Angular team created this star prefix so that we don't have to write all the ng-template code ourselves and we let angular do that for us.

And that's also the reason why on one element, we can use only one structural directive.

If you were to use *ngIf and *ngFor in the same element, how would Angular desugar that? ngIf first and then ngFor? The reverse? Both in the same template?

HERE IS A REALLY GOOD ARTICLE ON THIS - https://www.lucaspaganini.com/academy/angular-structural-directives-and-their-microsyntax

