We have already used *ngIf and *ngFor directives. But, there is also one other common built-in directive that Angular provides - *ngSwitch.

As the name suggests, it works similar to a "switch" statement. 

That is, it takes a value and then evaluates multiple conditions against that value. Whatever condition is True, the code inside that block is executed.

In javascript, we write a switch statement like this - 

    switch (new Date().getDay()) {
        case 0:
            day = "Sunday";
            break;
        case 1:
            day = "Monday";
            break;
        case 2:
            day = "Tuesday";
            break;
        case 3:
            day = "Wednesday";
            break;
        case 4:
            day = "Thursday";
            break;
        case 5:
            day = "Friday";
            break;
        case 6:
            day = "Saturday";
}


Yes, we can do the same thing using an if else as well. But just imagine how many if else block we would have to write for the above scenario. So the most important difference between the if else and switch statements is readability.

The same can be true in Angular templates. Suppose we have to do the same as above but in the Angular template. We want to take the current day and based on the value of the day, we render a paragraph saying which day it is. Not that great of an example but for now, let's take this situation.

 If we use ngIf, we would write something like this - 

    <p *ngIf="day == 0"> Sunday </p>
    <p *ngIf="day == 1"> Monday </p>
    <p *ngIf="day == 2"> Tuesday </p>
    <p *ngIf="day == 3"> Wednesday </p>
    <p *ngIf="day == 4"> Thursday </p>
    <p *ngIf="day == 5"> Friday </p>
    <p *ngIf="day == 6"> Saturday </p>

In this example, it does not seem like that big of a deal.

But just suppose what if we have a lot of lines of template to render for each case, instead of just one word.

The whole code will look quite messy.

We can organize this code better using an ngSwitch directive.

    <ng-container [ngSwitch]="day">

        <p *ngSwitchCase="0"> Day is Sunday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchCase="1"> Day is Monday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchCase="2"> Day is Tuesday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchCase="3"> Day is Wednesday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchCase="4"> Day is Thursday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchCase="5"> Day is Friday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchCase="6"> Day is Saturday </p>
        <p *ngSwitchDefault>This is the default value</p>

    </ng-container>


Just like a switch statement in JavaScript, we can write a default case as well. That part will be shown when no other cases are true.

Here, we can have multiple ngSwitchDefault and all of them get rendered if no other condition is true.

Similarly, we can also have multiple ngSwitchCase, all checking the same condition and all will be rendered if that condition is true.