As we know, "Directives" in Angular are simply classes that add additional behavior to the elements in Angular applications.

There are basically three types of Directives in Angular - 

    1. Components
    2. Attribute Directives
    3. Structural Directives

We already know about Components. Let's talk about the other two types.

 1. Attribute Directives -> They change the appearance or behavior of the elements, components or other directives. They are called "Attribute" directives because we use them as normal HTML attributes in Angular. That is, inside square brackets. 
   
Three most common attribute directives that Angular provides are - 

   - NgClass -> Adds and removes a set of CSS classes.
   - NgStyle -> Adds and removes a set of HTML styles.
   - NgModel -> Adds two-way data binding to an HTML form element.

2. Structural Directives -> Structural directives are responsible for HTML layout. They shape or reshape the DOM's structure, typically by adding, removing, and manipulating the host elements to which they are attached.

When we use them we use a "start" in front of their name. E.g. *ngIf, *ngFor, *ngSwitch

Three most common Structural directives that Angular provides are -

   - NgIf -> Conditionally creates or disposes of subviews from the template.
   - NgFor -> Repeat a node for each item in a list.
   - NgSwitch -> A set of directives that switch among alternative views.


We cannot use more than one structural directive on the same element.

For example, if we have a list of numbers and we want to loop over it and show numbers on the screen, we can use *ngFor. But if we also want that we only show even numbers then we may think let's use *ngIf as well. That won't work.

   <li *ngFor="let n for numbers" *ngIf="n % 2 !== 0">
   This will give an error and won't work



