Angular 15 introduced a new "Directive Composition API". 

The directive composition API lets you apply directives to a component's host element from within the component TypeScript class.

# ADDING DIRECTIVES TO A COMPONENT

To understand this, let's create a new directive named "LogDirective" and all it does is log the details of the elements in the console when we click that element.

This is how it looks like - 

    Directive({
        selector: '[appLog]',
        standalone: true,
        host: {
            '(click)': 'onLog()'
        }
    })
        export class LogDirective {
        elementRef = inject(ElementRef);

        onLog() {
            console.log("LOGGING THE ELEMENT");
            console.log(this.elementRef.nativeElement);
        }
    }

So, all we do is print the element to the console if we click on it.

Let's also say we have a component named "ParagraphComponent" which for now just shows a paragraph dynamically -

    export class ParagraphComponent {
        content = input.required<string>();
    }

And this is the HTML - 

    <p>{{content()}}</p>

And we are using it in our AppComponent HTML like this - 

    <app-paragraph content="Content for First Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph content="Content for Second Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph content="Content for Third Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph content="Content for Fourth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph content="Content for Fifth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph content="Content for Sixth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>

We want to add the "LogDirective" to all the "ParagraphComponent" elements. One way is to manually go and add it to every single instance of this element in our app - 

    <app-paragraph appLog content="Content for First Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog content="Content for Second Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog content="Content for Third Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog content="Content for Fourth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog content="Content for Fifth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog content="Content for Sixth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>

But just imagine if we have a big application with a lot of components and in each component we have used this "app-paragraph" element. This will be a difficult task.

So, a better option is to use the "hostDirectives" property on @Component() decorator. We can use this property to specify the directives that should be applied to all the instances of this component in the entire application. We call such directives "Host Directives".

So, in the "ParagraphComponent", we can simply write - 

   @Component({
        selector: 'app-paragraph',
        standalone: true,
        templateUrl: './paragraph.component.html',
        styleUrl: './paragraph.component.css',
        hostDirectives: [LogDirective] <- HERE
    })

The only thing is that the "Host Directives" should be "STANDALONE" otherwise you cannot add them to the "hostDirectives" array.

# INCLUDING INPUTS AND OUTPUTS

So, what about the Inputs and Outputs that we used to pass in the Directives before? Can we do that using "hostDirectives"?

Let's first see how we used to do that before.

Suppose that we need to accept some text as Input for our "LogDirective" and that text will also be console logged.

    export class LogDirective {
        elementRef = inject(ElementRef);

        text = input.required<string>(); <- INPUT

        onLog() {
            console.log("LOGGING THE TEXT: " + this.text());
            console.log(this.elementRef.nativeElement);
        }
    }

Now, the "hostDirective" array will throw an error - 

    Required input 'text' from host directive LogDirective must be exposed.

For now, let's remove this "hostDirective" array and go back to the old implementation where we manually added the directive to each element -

    <app-paragraph appLog text="Text for Para 1" content="Content for First Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog text="Text for Para 2" content="Content for Second Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog text="Text for Para 3" content="Content for Third Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog text="Text for Para 4"content="Content for Fourth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog text="Text for Para 5"content="Content for Fifth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph appLog text="Text for Para 6"content="Content for Sixth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>

Now it will all work fine.

But, how do we use this when we are using "hostDirectives" property to add directives to all the components? Let's see that. Before that, let's remove the directive that we used in the app component HTML and let's keep the "text" property for now - 

    <app-paragraph text="Text for Para 1" content="Content for First Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph text="Text for Para 2" content="Content for Second Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph text="Text for Para 3" content="Content for Third Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph text="Text for Para 4"content="Content for Fourth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph text="Text for Para 5"content="Content for Fifth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>
    <app-paragraph text="Text for Para 6"content="Content for Sixth Paragraph"></app-paragraph>

Well, for that, we use a different syntax to define Host Directives like this - 

    hostDirectives: [{
        directive: LogDirective,
        inputs: ['text']
    }]

So, previously, we were using a shorthand for Host Directives. Now, we are passing an object which takes some key value pairs.

So, here, we are saying that on whatever component the "LogDirective" will be applied, take that component's "text" attribute's value and pass that as the value for "text" property in the "LogDirective".

Ofcourse it is not necessary that the names should be the same. Let's say instead of "text", the attribute is called "paraText" like this -

    <app-paragraph paraText="Text for Para 1" content="Content for First Paragraph"></app-paragraph>

So, we can map this "paraText" to the "text" input in the "LogDirective" like this - 

    hostDirectives: [{
        directive: LogDirective,
        inputs: ['text: paraText']
    }]

And the same thing is what we can do for "outputs".

And that's the basics of Directive Composition. The benefit now is that you can add Host Directives to other directives as well. This enables the transitive aggregation of multiple behaviors.