In the previous section, we used "NgModel" to get access to the Form Control data for a specific form control.

But, as we know, the most common use case of "NgModel" is data binding.

So far, we haven't done data binding yet. There is no variable in the .ts file which is keeping track of the values entered in the input fields.

So, let's do that now.

One thing that we may want to do is to have a default value for the dropdown. For that, we can change the way we added "ngModel" in a form field.

We can use property binding and set a variable as the default value for the dropdown. 

    app.component.ts
    defaultQuestion = "pet";

    app.component.html
    <select 
        id="secret" 
        class="form-control"
        name="secret"
        [ngModel]="defaultQuestion" <-- ONE WAY BINDING
        required
    >
        <option value="pet">Your first Pet?</option>
        <option value="teacher">Your first teacher?</option>
    </select>

So, now, as soon as the form loads, the dropdown will show the "Your First Pet" as the selected question by default.

But ofcourse this is not enough. We might also want to store the input value or the selected dropdown value in some variable. That is, two-way data binding.

And as we know, for two-way data binding, we can use the [()] syntax.

Let's say that below the dropdown, we have a text area where the user can enter the answer to the question. And as the user enters the answer, we immediately show it in a paragraph below as he writes. And here, we can use two-way data binding.

    app.component.ts
    answer = '';

    app.component.html
    <div class="form-group">
        <textarea 
        name="questionAnswer" 
        class="form-control"
        rows="3"
        [(ngModel)]="answer"
        ></textarea>
    </div>
    <p>Your reply: {{answer}}</p>

So, we have an "answer" variable in .ts file and here, we are using two-way data binding to bind the values between template and the component file.

And so, we now saw how we can use NgModel in three different ways.

1. No binding -> Just use "ngModel" as it is. This is when we want to tell Angular that a particular control should be tracked as a Form Control.

2. One-way binding -> Use ngModel with "[]" around it to set a default value for a form control

3. Two-way binding -> use ngModel with "[()]" around it to get hold of the value as soon as the user selects it or enters it in the control.