Angular applications are modular and Angular has its own modularity system called "NgModules".

As Angular's website explains -

    NgModules are containers for a cohesive block of code dedicated to an application domain, a workflow, or a closely related set of capabilities. They can contain components, service providers, and other code files whose scope is defined by the containing NgModule. They can import functionality that is exported from other NgModules, and export selected functionality for use by other NgModules.

    While a small application might have only one NgModule, most applications have many more feature modules. The root NgModule for an application is so named because it can include child NgModules in a hierarchy of any depth.

For Example, when we create a new Angular application using ng new, we get an "AppModule" as the Root Module of our application. This "AppModule" will hold together some components, services, directives and more.

The reason why we need NgModules is because Angular does not automatically detect the Components or Services or Directives in our application. We have to explicitly tell Angular about them and that's why we have to mention every single Component, Service, Pipe, Directive etc in the "NgModule" so that Angular knows that all these are part of a specific module in the app.

Every Angular app needs to have at least one Module and that is the "AppModule".

And inside a NgModule, we can import other NgModules as well. While you may not have realised it, we have done it countless time when we imported "FormsModule", "HttpClientModule", "RouterModule" etc. These are all NgModules only.

If you see their codes on GitHub, you will see that all of them have the @NgModule decorator which is used only in an Angular Module file.

    FormsModule - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/17.0.3/packages/forms/src/form_providers.ts
    RouterModule - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/17.0.3/packages/router/src/router_module.ts
    HttpClientModule - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/17.0.3/packages/common/http/src/module.ts

So, Modules can also add services to the application and these services can be something we develop or something from outside sources like Angular Router or HttpClient.

Now, while an Angular app needs at least one Module, it does not mean we can have only one Module. An app may be split into multiple modules and each module might have some specific functionality.

For example, if we have a Banking application, then there might be one Angular Module just for handling payments and another Angular modules to handle accounts.

So, the bottomline is, you just cannot use a feature/building block without including it in a module in Angular.