Let's analyze the App Module.

Whenever you generate a new Angular project, this is what the App Module looks like - 

    @NgModule({
    declarations: [AppComponent],
    imports: [BrowserModule],
    providers: [],
    bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })
    export class AppModule {}

We see that we are exporting a class named "AppModule" but that class does not have anything inside it. Instead, all the information is provided using the @NgModule decorator.

This Decorator tells Angular that this class should be treated as an NgModule or Angular Module.

And inside this decorator, we then have to provide information about all the components, services, pipes, directives, other NgModules, imports, exports and so on.

Let's go over each of the common properties of an @NgModule decorator.

## Declarations 

This is an array of components, directives, and pipes that belong to this NgModule. Note that this does not include Services. For that, we have a separate section and there is a reason for that.

## Imports

This is an array with Other Modules that we want to import in our Module. For example, "HttpClientModule", "FormsModule", "RouterModule" etc are all different NgModules that, if we want to use in our app, we have to add to the "imports" array.

By default whenever you generate a new Angular application, it always has one NgModule imported named "BrowserModule" to use browser-specific services like "DOM Rendering", Sanitization, Location etc.

And whenever we split our Angular Application into multiple modules, this "imports" array is the one that helps us in importing them wherever required.

For example, we have created one extra Module named "App Routing Module". We put that in the imports array so that it can then be used by our Angular application.

## Providers

These are the "providers" or the "creators" of the "Services" that Components can use. In a newly generated Angular app, there are no providers by default.

For example, if we have a service file named "AuthService", then it will be added to this "providers" array. This means, whenever Angular has to inject the "AuthService" in any component, it will use this "AuthService" class as the provider or creator of the instance.

A provider is an instruction to the Dependency Injection system on how to obtain a value for a dependency. Most of the time, these dependencies are services that you create and provide.

Now, in latest Angular versions, it is no longer required to add Services to this providers array because now we can do that on the Service file itself by doing -

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root',
    })

This will make that Service be available throughout the application by providing it at root level. So, Angular will create a single, shared instance of that service and inject into any class that needs it.

If we want this service to be available in a particular NgModule only, we can do -

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: <ModuleName>,
    })

Or, we can also add it to the providers array of NgModule.

If we add this Service to the providers array of NgModule file, then this Service will only be accessible inside of that particular module, not in all the different NgModules in your app. The only way to use it outside of the NgModule where it is defined will be by importing that particular NgModule in other NgModules.

## Bootstrap

This array has the components that are present in the "index.html" class. It is like an entry point to the application.

By default, an Angular application has "AppComponent" as the only component in the Bootstrap array because in the index.html file, by default, we only use that component.

That's why in index.html, we have app-root element which is the selector for the AppComponent.

## Exports

Soo far, we haven't used the "exports" property of @NgModule but this is the most important property when we split our application into multiple Modules. Because it is this property that lets us Export things from a particular NgModule so that they can be important into other NgModules.

Just like "imports", we can "Export" the NgModules, components, directives and pipes from one NgModule so that they can be used in any component that is a part of the NgModule that imports this NgModule.

Now, it is important to note that since we can also export the whole NgModule, this will also let other NgModules access the services of this exported NgModule if they import it. But ofcourse, if we want that service to be accessible throughout the app, we can also use the "providedIn: 'root'" in that Service class.

And well, these are the most commonly used properties in an NgModule. There are also other properties in @NgModule decorator such as "schemas", "id", "jit" etc. but we don't often use them in our application.

