Generally as our app grows, we want to organize the code better so the best practice is to divide the app into different modules, with each module having a specific functionality.

Such modules are called "Feature Modules".

With feature modules, you can keep code related to a specific functionality or feature separate from other code. Delineating areas of your application helps with collaboration between developers and teams, separating directives, and managing the size of the root module.

A feature module collaborates with the root module and with other modules through the services it provides and the components, directives, and pipes that it shares.

For example, let's say there is an Angular Application with a single "AppModule" having these components and directives -> 

    - AppComponent
    - ProductComponent
    - ProductListComponent
    - OrdersComponent
    - HighlightDirective

So, what we can do is that we can have two new Feature Modules, one for the Products and the other for the Orders.

    - ProductsModule will have the ProductComponent and ProductListComponent.

    - OrdersModule will have the OrdersComponent and HighlightDirective.

    - AppModule will have the AppComponent.

And now, our Application is nicely organized.

Now, let's apply the same in our project.

# CREATING FEATURE MODULES

Before we start creating Feature Modules, we need to see what all Features our App currently has and what can we separate from the Root Module / App Module.

We have three main feature areas - 

    1. Recipes
    2. Shopping List
    3. Authentication

So, let's start with the "Recipes" module.

All we do is generate a new file inside the "Recipes" folder named "recipes.module.ts".

Inside that, we export a class named "RecipesModule" which has the NgModule decorator.

    @NgModule()
    export class RecipesModule{}

And now, we have to provide all the data about this RecipesModule to Angular. We do that by using the various properties of the @NgModule decorator that we discussed in previous section.

First, we can add all the Recipe Components in the declarations array -

        declarations: [
            RecipesComponent, 
            RecipeListComponent, 
            RecipeEditComponent, 
            RecipeDetailComponent, 
            RecipeItemComponent, 
            RecipeStartComponent
        ]

And now, we also export all these components so that when we import the "RecipesModule" inside "AppModule", then all these components are also available.

        exports: [
            RecipesComponent, 
            RecipeListComponent, 
            RecipeEditComponent, 
            RecipeDetailComponent, 
            RecipeItemComponent, 
            RecipeStartComponent
        ]

And finally, we can remove all the imports for these components from the AppModule since we no longer need to have them there. And also, we will remove the components from "declarations" array of the AppModule as well.

Finally, we can import the "RecipesModule" inside "AppModule" and put it in the "imports" array.

So, inside app.module.ts, we can do -

    import { RecipesModule } from './recipes/recipes.module';
    imports: [
        RecipesModule
    ],

Now, everything should work fine, right? But no! We see that our App breaks.

Now, we see various errors like - 

    Can't bind to 'formGroup' since it isn't a known property of 'form'.

    'router-outlet' is not a known element

And the reason for that is since in some of our Recipes Components, we are using "Forms" functionality, we need to import the "FormsModule" or "ReactiveFormsModule" in the "RecipesModule".

Similarly, to make sure Routing works, we need to use the "RoutingModule" as well.

Because, even though we are importing the "RecipesModule" inside "AppModule", this won't magically also provide access to the "AppRoutingModule" that currently sits in the "AppModule".




