So far, we have cleaned up our AppModule and moved all the Recipes related stuff to the RecipesModule.

Now, one place that we haven't touched yet is the "AppRoutingModule" which is also an NgModule and this one has all the Routes related information.

Now that we have our RecipesModule, we should also have a separate Routing Module for the Recipes instead of keeping them in the AppRoutingModule.

Before we do that, it is important to understand how we used AppRoutingModule initially.

So, our AppRoutingModule has a "routes" array and in the @NgModule, we have something like this - 

    @NgModule({
        imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes)],
        exports: [RouterModule]
    })

So, we are importing the "RouterModule" and using its "forRoot" method which takes the "routes" array that we have created and then returns a fully configured RouterModule which we then "export".

Now, let's try to implement something similar in our RecipesModule.

Let's create a new file named "recipes-routing.module.ts".

In that, we can have -

    // Routes Configuration
    const routes: Routes = []

    @NgModule({
        imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes)],
        exports: [RouterModule]
    })
    export class RecipesRoutingModule{}

And now, we can import it in the RecipesModule - 

        imports: [
            BrowserModule,
            ReactiveFormsModule,
            LucideAngularModule.pick({Save, MoveLeft, PlusCircle, Trash2, Pencil, RotateCcw, FilePlus2}),
            RouterModule,
            RecipesRoutingModule
        ],

This should work right?

While it should, this is not recommended.

As per Angular, 

    Call forRoot only in the root application module, AppModule. Calling it in any other module, particularly in a lazy loaded module, is contrary to the intent and is likely to produce a runtime error.

So, we should not use "forRoot()" in any Module apart from the Root AppModule. 

For the "Feature Modules", the routes should be registered with "forChild()".

This is important to keep in mind.

So, we should change our RecipesRoutingModule to -

    // Routes Configuration
    const routes: Routes = []

    @NgModule({
        imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes)],
        exports: [RouterModule]
    })
    export class RecipesRoutingModule{}

Basically, using "forChild" will tell Angular that we already have a "Router" instance available in the app so whatever "routes" we have in this "RecipesRoutingModule", please register all these routes with that already existing instance.

If we had used forRoot() here as well, there would've been two separate instances of Router which is not ideal because in an Angular application, we want a single global Router instance.

So, the bottom line is, always use "forChild" to merge the routes inside Feature Modules with the Routes inside AppModule or the Root Module.

The final step now is to move all the "Recipes" related routes from the AppRoutingModule to the RecipesRoutingModule file.

    const routes: Routes = 
    [
        {path: 'recipes', component: RecipesComponent, title: "Recipes", children: [
            {path: '', component: RecipeStartComponent, title: "Recipes"},
            {path: 'new', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Add New Recipe"},
            {path: ':id/edit', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Edit Recipe"},
            {path: ':id', component: RecipeDetailComponent, title: "Recipe Details"},
        ], resolve: [recipesResolver], canActivate: [authGuard]},
    ]

One thing to note now is that now that we have our separate RecipesRoutingModule, there is no need to export any Recipes component now from RecipesModule. Because we are not using any of the Recipes Components outside of the RecipesModule now. 

We had that exports array previously only because we were using those components in the AppRoutingModule. But, now, even that is not required.

So, we can completely remove the "exports" array from RecipesModule as that is not required at all.

Now that we have a separate Module for Recipes feature, we can also do the same for the "Shopping List" feature of our app. You can practice that on your own.