So far, we have created two "Feature Modules" in our application - RecipesModule and ShoppingListModule.

Now, as we learnt, a "Feature Module" has components, services, directives, pipes etc specific to a feature which may or may not be required outside this module in any other module.

But, in most of the applications, there is some sharing of components or pipes or directives or services between different modules.

For example, if we have a component to show an Alert, then it is not necessary that the component will be only used in one module. It can also be used in some other module. 

For such comonents or pipes or directives, we can create "Shared Modules" which, as the name suggests, are those elements that are "shared" among different modules.

You can put commonly used directives, pipes, and components into one module and then import just that module wherever you need it in other parts of your application.

The advantage is that this reduces code duplication.

For example, let's take an application which has two modules - ProductsModule and SalesModule.

Inside ProdudctsModule, we have - 

    - ModalComponent
    - DropdownDirective
    - FormsModule
    - ProductsComponent

Inside SalesModule, we have -

    - ModalComponent
    - DropdownDirective
    - FormsModule
    - SalesComponent

So, the only thing that is different for both is the "ProductsComponent" and "SalesComponent". Otherwise, they both use "ModalComponent", "DropdownDirective" and "FormsModule".

So, we are unnecessarily having duplicate code.

To improve this, we can create one "Shared" Module that has -

    - ModalComponent
    - DropdownDirective
    - FormsModule

And now, all we need to do is to import this "Shared" module into both "ProductsModule" and "SalesModule".

# USING SHARED MODULE IN OUR APPLICATION

Again, we can create one module file in our "shared" folder in which we have all the things that might be used in different places like the Alert messages.

So, we can create a new file inside the "shared" folder named "shared.module.ts".

And now, in this, we can add all the components that may be shared in different components like "AlertComponent".

And we can similarly also add all the Modules in the "imports" array like the "CommonModule" which both "RecipesModule" and "ShoppingListModule" use.

But, one thing that is special about "Shared Modules" is that they also "export" everything so that that can be used in other modules.

So, that's what we will do here -

    @NgModule({
        declarations: [
            AlertComponent
        ],

        imports : [
            CommonModule,
            LucideAngularModule.pick({Save, MoveLeft, PlusCircle, Trash2, Pencil, RotateCcw, FilePlus2})
        ],

        exports: [
            AlertComponent,
            CommonModule,
            LucideAngularModule
        ]
    })
    export class SharedModule {}

Note that you may get an error saying -

    This import contains errors, which may affect components that depend on this NgModule

Check if you have "AlertComponent" imported in some other module like the App Module. If yes, then remove it from there because we are now adding it in the Shared Module itself.

-----------------------------------------------------------------
PLEASE NOTE - YOU CAN ONLY DECLARE A COMPONENT OR A DIRECTIVE OR A PIPE ONCE IN ANY ONE MODULE. YOU CANNOT HAVE THAT SAME DECLARATION IN MULTIPLE MODULES. THIS RULE IS ONLY FOR "declarations", NOT FOR "imports". THIS MEANS, IF YOU NEED A COMPONENT IN TWO DIFFERENT MODULES, THERE IS NO OTHER WAY THAN TO ADD THAT COMPONENT TO A SHARED MODULE SINCE YOU CANNOT ADD IT TO TWO DIFFERENT MODULES.
-----------------------------------------------------------------

If still the error is appearing, then restart the angular app.

And now, the final step is to import our Shared Module in the "RecipesModule" and "ShoppingListModule".

For that, we can just add it to the imports array of both modules -

    imports: [
        SharedModule
    ]

And now, we have successfully created a "Shared" Module that is now being used in two different modules.