The "Core" functionality of an application is kept in the "Core" Module. The purpose of the CoreModule is to provide a central place for defining services, single instance components, configuration settings, util and helper classes and functions and any other code that is used across the entire application.

The CoreModule is typically imported only once, in the AppModule. This ensures that its services and components are available throughout the application.

This is where the core application logic is implemented, including all data manipulation and communication with external systems.



"core" folder will contain things like:

## helpers
Various helper classes, functions, and modules that are specific to your application's domain like auth-helper.ts, form-helper.ts, manual-subs.ts

## interceptors
Interceptors are classes that can intercept HTTP requests and responses from the client to the server and vice versa.

## models
Interface and Types definitions for API returned models, dtos. I prefer to prefix my interfaces with I and types with T. For example IMovie, TTime.

## services
Singleton services with @Injectable({providedIn: "root"}) decorator for handling API calls, error handling, logging etc.

## shell
Shell components are standalone components used only inside of app.component.ts like layout components (header, footer, menu) or some of the placeholder components like toasters or modals (if decided to be implemented that way).

## store
State, actions and reducer definitions for state management solution implementation

## utils
Various helper functions, classes, and modules that can be reused across different parts of the application like date-utils.ts, string-utils.ts.

Note: Some developers prefer to keep utility functions and helper classes in the SharedModule since they are typically shared across different parts of the app and don't have any dependencies on Angular, nor they are singletons. However, it's just a preference.

Note that in our project, there is not such core functionality that we might want to put in a core folder and then create a core module since this app is very small. But generally, you may want to use Core Moduels to keep the core functionality at one place.