One more feature module that we can add in our project is an "Auth" Module because we do have a lot of "Authentication" related stuff like the "Auth Component", "Auth Service", "Auth Guard" and so on.

Note that we will keep the provider for the "Auth Interceptor" inside the App Module only because Interceptors are global for our application so it is better to keep them either in "Shared" or in the "App Module".

Now, the process will be exactly the same as for other Feature Modules we have created so nothing different this time.

1. First, we add a new auth.module.ts file in our "auth" folder. And then we add all the required data in it.


    @NgModule({
        declarations: [
            AuthComponent
        ],
        
        imports: [
            FormsModule,
            SharedModule,
        ]
    })
    export class AuthModule {}

2. Next, we also create an "AuthRoutingModule" file for the routes and it has the following - 

        // Route configuration
        const routes: Routes = [
            {path: 'auth', component: AuthComponent}
        ]

        @NgModule({
            imports: [RouterModule.forChild(routes)],
            exports: [RouterModule]
        })
        export class AuthRoutingModule {}

3. Then, we import the AuthRoutingModule inside AuthModule.

    imports: [
            FormsModule,
            SharedModule,
            AuthRoutingModule
        ],

4. Finally, we import the AuthModule inside AppModule and remove all the unnecessary imports from AppModule.

So, App Module now looks like this - 

        @NgModule({
            declarations: [
                AppComponent,
                HeaderComponent
            ],
            imports: [
                CommonModule,
                AppRoutingModule,
                HttpClientModule,
                RecipesModule,
                ShoppingListModule,
                AuthModule
            ],
            providers: [
                {provide: HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, useClass: AuthInterceptor, multi: true}
            ],
            bootstrap: [AppComponent]
        })
        export class AppModule { }

So, we see that the App Module is now much cleaner than what it was when we started.