So far, with all the modules that we have created, it has no impact on the performance of the application. The application still performs in the same way as it was before.

The only advantage is that the code is more managable now as the app grows.

But, now we can talk about one concept that can improve the "performance" of our application.

That concept is "Lazy Loading".

By default, NgModules are eagerly loaded. This means that as soon as the application loads, so do all the NgModules, whether they are immediately necessary or not. 

For large applications with lots of routes, consider lazy loading — a design pattern that loads NgModules as needed. Lazy loading helps keep initial bundle sizes smaller, which in turn helps decrease load times.

# UNDERSTANDING LAZY LOADING WITH AN EXAMPLE

Consider an application where we have three routes and each route is associated with a module. 

    1. "/" route -> Associated with "AppModule" or "CoreModule"
    2. "/products" route -> Associated with "ProductsModule"
    3. "/admin" route -> Associated with "AdminModule"

So, what should happen when we visit the "/" route initially? The "AppModule" or "CoreModule" should get loaded right? 

Well..... that is not what happens by default.

As soon as our application loads, all the NgModules are also loaded, no matter if they are needed on that page or not. That is not a good thing performance-wise. 

Since Angular creates a SPA (Single Page Application), all of its components are loaded at once. This means that a lot of unnecessary libraries or modules might be loaded as well.

For a small application this would be okay. But as the application grows the load time will increase if everything is loaded at once.

It would be so much better if we can load the "ProductsModule" only when the user visits "/produts" route and similarly "AdminModule" only when the user visits "/admin" route.

And that's exactly what "Lazy Loading" is used for.
