Let's try to lazy load the "RecipesModule" first.

Because, initially, we will land on the "Auth" page and only if the user is "Authenticated", we can then show the Recipes page. So, it makes no sense to load the "RecipesModule" when we are still at the "Auth" Page. Same with the "ShoppingList" module.

Now, for Lazy Loading to work, it is important that your "Feature Modules" have their own "Routes", instead of the "Routes" for that feature being in the AppModule or some other module.

That's the reason why for all our "Feature" modules, we also have separate "Route" configurations.

To Lazy Load the Angular modules, we need to add some new Routes to our "AppRoutingModule". 

For example, first, we want to lazy load the "RecipesModule" so that it is only loaded when /recipes route is visited.

So, in the AppRoutingModule, we add this new route - 

    {
        path: 'recipes', 
        loadChildren: () => import('./recipes/recipes.module').then(m => m.RecipesModule)
    }

You will notice that here, we are not using the "component" property which we normally use to tell Angular which component will be loaded on a particular route.

Instead, we are using "loadChildren". 

But, what is this "loadChildren" property?

Using this property we tell Angular that only load the particular module when the path matches. 

So basically, here, we are saying that when the user visits the "/recipes" route, only then load the "RecipesModule".

When we write - 

     import(<module-path>).then(module => module.<routing-module>)
     
Angular will create a separate js bundle that will be loaded only when a child route is activated. And you get better performance, code readability, and maintainability.

But we are not done yet. 

The second step is to add update the "RecipesModule" routing configuration a bit.

Now, instead of 'recipes' being the parent route in this module, we will have '' being the parent route.

So far, we had recipes routing configuration as this - 

    [
    {
        path: 'recipes', component: RecipesComponent, title: "Recipes", children: [
            {path: '', component: RecipeStartComponent, title: "Recipes"},
            {path: 'new', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Add New Recipe"},
            {path: ':id/edit', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Edit Recipe"},
            {path: ':id', component: RecipeDetailComponent, title: "Recipe Details"},
        ], 
        resolve: [recipesResolver], canActivate: [authGuard]},
    ]


But, now, instead of path: 'recipes', we will update it to path: ''.

    [
        {
            path: '', component: RecipesComponent, title: "Recipes", children: [
                {path: '', component: RecipeStartComponent, title: "Recipes"},
                {path: 'new', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Add New Recipe"},
                {path: ':id/edit', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Edit Recipe"},
                {path: ':id', component: RecipeDetailComponent, title: "Recipe Details"},
            ], 
            resolve: [recipesResolver], canActivate: [authGuard]},
        ]

And the final step is to remove the import of the "RecipesModule" from the "AppModule". This is important otherwise your application may become unresponsive. REMOVE THE LAZY LOADED MODULE FROM THE IMPORTS OF YOUR ROOT APPMODULE!!!


So now, "imports" array of our App Module looks like this - 

    imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        AppRoutingModule,
        HttpClientModule,
        ShoppingListModule,
        AuthModule
    ] 

ANOTHER IMPORTANT THING - MAKE SURE YOU DON'T HAVE ANY IMPORTS (EVEN UNUSED IMPORTS) IN YOUR APP MODULE THAT ARE RELATED TO THE RECIPESMODULE COMPONENTS, DIRECTIVES, PIPES ETC.

And now, if you followed everything property, just run ng serve again and hopefully you won't see any issues and the lazy loading will now work fine.

Now, as soon as you put your credentials on the Auth page and then press the login button and the recipes page loads, you will see in the network tab that only when the /recipes page loads, we will see a new request made to 

    http://localhost:4200/src_app_recipes_recipes_module_ts.js

And that is the lazy loaded module which was loaded only when we reached the /recipes path and not on the /auth page.

And now that we have successfully lazy loaded one module, we can do the same with other modules in our app like the "ShoppingList" and "Auth" modules. Feel free to try that on your own.