Now that we have implemented Lazy Loading in our application, what is happening is that only as soon as we visit the specific "route", the specific "module" will get loaded. By "loading a module", we just mean that the browser will download that specific module related javascript file and parse it.

So, the downside of this approach is that there is a tiny delay when we visit a route and when the page gets loaded because the browser has to download that specific module file and only when it finishes donwloading and parsing it, we can see the page.

In our application, this delay is hardly noticed because the module is so small. 

But imagine the scenario in a large enterprise application. On top of this, if you also add in the fact that the user may have a slow internet connection, then this delay will be even more problematic.

And to tackle this delay, we have the concept of "Preloading".

Preloading modules improves user experience by loading parts of your application in the background. By doing this, users don't have to wait for the elements to download when they activate a route.

So basically, there are three types of ways in which we can load Modules in Angular - 

     - Eager Loading: Load the modules before application starts.
     - Pre-Loading: Load the modules that are very likely to be used soon after the application started.
     - Lazy Loading: Load the modules on demand when a specific route is accessed.

Now as an example, suppose we have an Online Shopping application where we have different modules. One such module is the ShoppingCart module.

Now, since we know that most of the users will frequently access the Shopping Cart page, we can preload this module as soon as the application starts so that when the user visits this page, the module is already loaded and so there is no delay.

And that's the whole idea of "Pre-Loading".

# PRELOADING STRATEGIES

There are various Pre-Loading strategies that we can use in an Angular application.

A Preloading Strategy is a way to tell the Angular's router to load modules in the background, so that when the user navigates to a new page, the required modules have already been loaded and the page appears almost instantaneously.

There are two built-in Pre-Loading Strategies in an Angular App - 

## 1. NoPreloading (DEFAULT) 

This is the default strategy that Angular uses under the hood. It means that by default, Angular will not "Pre-Load" any module.

So, by default, when using lazy loading, all modules are lazily loaded.


## 2. PreloadAllModules 

As the name suggests, this will "Pre-Load" all the modules as soon as possible. So basically, everything is loaded at once.

# HOW TO USE PRELOADING STRATEGIES?

So now the question is, how can we implement Pre-Loading in our application using the built-in strategies?

The answer is using the "RouterModule.forRoot" method which, as we know, is only used in one place and that is the AppModule which is the Root module.

This method not only takes the "Module" class as the argument, but also accepts the second argument which is an object of type "ExtraOptions". In this object, we can "configure" the Router.

Here is the interface for this "ExtraOptions" type -> https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/17.0.4/packages/router/src/router_config.ts

This object has one property named "preloadingStrategy" which accepts the type of Preloading strategy that you want to use.

To this, we can pass either "PreloadAllModules" or "NoPreloading".

For example - 

    RouterModule.forRoot(routes, {
        preloadingStrategy: NoPreloading
    })

And this will have no effect in our application because this is the default strategy that is used even if we don't explicitly set it.

But, when we use "PreloadAllModules" strategy, something interesting happens - 

    RouterModule.forRoot(routes, {
        preloadingStrategy: PreloadAppModules
    })

You will see in Network tab that now, when we load the application for the first time, then all the modules get downloaded. So, RecipesModule, ShoppingListModule, AuthModule are all downloaded, even though we haven't yet visited the "/recipes" or "/shopping-list" route. That's because we are telling Angular to load all these modules as soon as application starts.

So, the important takeaway is this -

    -  Without lazy loading the whole app would have to be loaded in one go, and the user wouldn't see anything until the code for the whole app (all "pages") is ready.

    - With lazy loading we just load the first module, so that the user can see the initial page very quickly. But without preloading the user will then have to wait for the loading of additional modules each time he wants to move to different "subpages".

    - To avoid this, the other modules will be loaded in the background, as soon as the first module is loaded and displayed, using Pre-Loading.

    In this way we have the best of both worlds.

# AN ANALOGY TO UNDERSTAND LAZY LOADING AND LAZY LOADING WITH PRE-LOADING

Consider going to a restaurant and want to order three dishes.

    - In eager loading(default behaviour) : It is like ordering all the three dishes at the same time and telling to bring all the dishes at the same time

    - In lazy loading : It is like ordering one dish and finishing eating that dish, then ordering the second dish then completing that and ordering the third dish. Here, even though first dish is served early there will be delay between second and third dish.

    - In lazy loading with preloading strategy : It is like ordering the first dish and as soon as the dish arrives, we order the two remaining dishes so that the chef can prepare the other two while we complete our first Here, we will be served with the first dish similar to lazy loading but because the other dishes are being made while we eat the first dish there won't be delay in the other dishes arriving once we finish eating the first dish.
