Ofcourse we want to have a fine-grain control over the Pre-Loading of modules in our Application.

It is not always efficient to always Pre-Load all the modules in an Applications. The best way is to only Pre-Load those modules that are used most frequently by the users of our application. In that way, we no longer avoid delay issues when accessing that particular page, but we also avoid having to pre-load / download the modules in the browser that may hardly be accessed by a user.

Angular only provides two PreLoading strategies by default where we can either Pre-Load no Module, or Pre-Load all modules.

So, if we want to Pre-Load "specific" modules, we have to write our custom Pre-Loading strategy.

Now, before we do that, I really want to stress on checking out how the "PreloadAllModules" and "NoPreloading" strategies are implemented in Angular.

# SOME CODE ANALYSIS

You can find the code for these two classes here - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/17.0.4/packages/router/src/router_preloader.ts#L29-L62

You will see that the "PreloadAllModules" class is defined as this - 

    @Injectable({providedIn: 'root'})
    export class PreloadAllModules implements PreloadingStrategy {
        preload(route: Route, fn: () => Observable<any>): Observable<any> {
            return fn().pipe(catchError(() => of(null)));
        }
    }

So, this class is implementing another class named "PreloadingStrategy". This "PreloadingStrategy" class is an "abstract" class with just one method named "preload". So, that's why, the "PreloadAllModules" has to implement this "preload" method.

NOTE - YES, WE "extend" A CLASS AND NOT "implement". BUT IN TYPESCRIPT, YOU CAN "implement" AN ABSTRACT CLASS SO IT WILL BE THEN TREATED AS AN INTERFACE. THAT'S WHY THE "PreloadAllModules" class is not using "override" keyword before the "preload" method. 

This method takes two arguments, one is the "Route" and the other is a function that returns an Observable.

If we see the code for "NoPreloading" - 

    @Injectable({providedIn: 'root'})
    export class NoPreloading implements PreloadingStrategy {
        preload(route: Route, fn: () => Observable<any>): Observable<any> {
            return of(null);
        }
    }

Here, you will see that this one is exactly the same but just that this is directly returning an Observable with "null" as the data.

In case of the "PreloadAllModules", it returns "fn()" which means it is returning an "Observable". And only if that Observable throws some error, only then we will return "of(null)".

Since "NoPreloading" will not preload any module, it means, returning an Observable with a "null" data will tell Angular not to preload a Module.

On the other hand, if we return the function in the second argument, that will tell Angular to "preload" a module.

We can summarise this as follows - 

    A preloading strategy is a simple Angular class that extends/implements the "PreloadingStrategy" abstract class.

    When executed, the "preload" method will return the call to "fn" if the route should be preloaded, or an "Observable<null>" if not.

And now, we can put all this logic into work to implement our "Custom" preloading strategy to load only "specific" modules.

# CREATING A CUSTOM PRE-LOADING STRATEGY

A Custom Pre-Loading strategy is simply a "Service" that will "implement" the class "PreloadingStrategy", same as how the built-in strategies do.

So, let's create a new service named "PreloadSpecificModules" by doing this - 

    ng g s preload-specific-modules
    
This wil be generated in the App Module since that's where we need it.

Now, a new file will be created with this code - 

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class PreloadSpecificModulesService {}

The next step is to "extend" the "PreloadingStrategy" abstract class.

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class PreloadSpecificModulesService implements PreloadingStrategy {}

And this now means, we also have to implement the "preload" method - 

  
    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class PreloadSpecificModulesService implements PreloadingStrategy {
    
        preload(route: Route, fn: () => Observable<any>): Observable<any> {
            throw new Error('Method not implemented.');
        }
    }

And now comes the question of how to decide whether to "Pre-Load" a module or not?

For example, we want to Pre-Load the "RecipesModule". We know that we have implemented Lazy-Loading such that "RecipesModule" is only loaded when we visit "/recipes" route.

So, what we can do is we can pass some data to this "/recipes" route using the "data" property. Generally, we pass a key as "preload" and the value is either "true" or "false". 

For example, in the App Routing Module, we can do -

    {
        path: 'recipes', 
        loadChildren: () => import('./recipes/recipes.module').then(m => m.RecipesModule), data: {
            preload: true
        }
    },

And now, inside the "preload" method, we can check if a route has this particular "preload" key and if it is "true". If yes, only then the Module that is lazy loaded on that route should be "Pre-Loaded".

So, we can do -

    preload(route: Route, fn: () => Observable<any>): Observable<any> {
        return route.data?.['preload'] ? fn() : of(null);
    }

So, only if there is a key named "preload" in the Route's "data" and it is "true", we will return the "fn()" function which means the Module will be pre-loaded. Otherwise, we will return "of(null)" which means the Module will not be pre-loaded.

The final step is to now use this custom Pre-Loading strategy in our application.

For that, we will add it in the same way as we added the built-in strategies. That is, inside the "forRoot" method - 

    RouterModule.forRoot(routes, {
        preloadingStrategy: PreloadSpecificModulesService
    })

And that's it! Now, if you load the application, you will see that only the "RecipesModule" gets loaded as soon as Application loads. The "ShoppingListModule" is not loaded because for the "/shopping-list" route, we do not pass a key named "preload" set to true.
