When we create a web application using Angular, then it creates a "Client-side rendered" application. Angular is primarily a client-side framework. It runs in the user's browser and renders the application there.

But, there is also a term called "Server-side Rendering" or "SSR" which, as the name shows, is a techinique to render a web page on the server rather than in the browser. 

Server-side rendering (SSR) is a process that involves rendering pages on the server, resulting in initial HTML content which contains initial page state. Once the HTML content is delivered to a browser, Angular initializes the application and utilizes the data contained within the HTML.

In SSR, you'll create an HTML file with all of the content of the site and send it back to the user. The user will then get an fully rendered HTML page that contains all of the necessary information for them to see your site without having to wait for any JavaScript or CSS files to load. This means that users who visit your site will be able to see everything much faster than if they were just looking at blank screen while waiting for JavaScript files to load.

When done well, SSR can greatly improve performance, because it enables you to render content before it is sent down to the client. It also reduces page load time and improves SEO by sending the page's content earlier than if you were to send it after the page has loaded.

# BENEFITS OF SERVER-SIDE RENDERING

 - **Faster load time**. A server-side rendered application speeds up page loading when the user suffers from a slow internet connection. Thus it greatly improves the whole user experience.

 - **Easy indexation by search engines**. As the content can be rendered before the page is loaded when rendering server-side, search engines can easily index and crawl it.

 - **There are fewer issues with social media indexing**. Social media crawlers, like search engine bots, have difficulty indexing JavaScript content. Client-side rendering is not supported by Facebook's Open Graph Protocol or Twitter Cards, for example. If social media sharing is an important part of your marketing strategy, server-side rendering may be a better option.

 - **Better in terms of accessibility**. SSR apps are better suited for people who use older devices with less powerful CPUs because the server sends pre-rendered content to the browser. Because assistive technologies such as screen readers cannot always parse client-side JavaScript, server-side rendering is frequently recommended for SPA accessibility. So, server-side rendering helps efficiently load web pages for users with slow Internet connections or outdated devices.


# POTENTIAL DRAWBACKS OF SERVER-SIDE RENDERING

 - **Increase in expenses**. In order to deploy an SSR application, you'll need to pay for a server or, at the very least, a "serverless" backend, which means higher running costs. Although, as server-side rendering is not the default for JavaScript websites, it can be costly and resource-intensive, and the server bears the full burden of rendering content for users and bots.

 - **May cause slower page rendering**. Server-side rendering is ideal for static HTML site generation, but in more complex applications, frequent server requests and full page reloads can result in overall slower page rendering.

 - **Problems with compatibility**. A number of third-party libraries and tools are incompatible with server-side rendering.

 - **HTML with a larger size**. Because of the embedded hydration state, SSR apps have a larger HTML size. This is not an argument against SSR, but rather something to consider as a potential risk if it is implemented incorrectly.


# HOW SSR IS IMPLEMENTED IN ANGULAR APPLICATIONS

Earlier, the "Angular Universal" was a project that would enable server-side rendering of Angular applications in a variety of scenarios. 

Later with Angular 17, the "Angular Universal" repo was merged into "Angular CLI" repo, the code was refactored and this whole project was renamed to "Angular SSR".

Now, the universal features such as server-side rendering and build-time prerendering are directly supported in Angular CLI and do not require a separate integration with Universal.

So, with the Angular SSR enabled, you still have a client-side application but the initial page will be server-side rendered. This gives the best of both worlds.