Previously, we could use any Static Website provider like Amazon S3 to deploy the Angular app because in the end we just had to deploy a couple of html and js files. We did not need any hosting provider that could execute code on the server.

But, after we add "SSR", this changes. Because, after we add SSR, we now have some code that must run on the server.

As we saw, an Angular app using SSR is basically a Node.js app using express. So, we can simply search for Node.js hosting providers to find the hosting providers that we can use to deploy our Angular application.

# SOME THINGS TO NOTE

You typically use Angular SSR to pre-render Angular pages on the server. Once the app then runs on the client, it's a normal SPA again.

Server-side rendering (SSR) can make sense because of SEO considerations (crawler should see what your users see) or because you want to deliver a finished page to your users (rather than creating the page in the browser).

But that also has one important implication: You MUST NOT use any browser-only APIs like document.querySelector()  in your Angular code! 

Simply because it will execute on the server and there, such APIs are not available.

So, what if we are using browser-only APIs in our code? We usually use global objects like document, window, navigator, etc. in our code. But in our server-side code, these objects are not available.

We do not want to remove that code but we want that the code should only be executed on the "browser", not on the "server". And this can be enforced through the 'afterRender' and 'afterNextRender' lifecycle hooks. These are only executed on the browser and skipped on the server.

So, let's say we have a code that uses the "nativeElement" of an ElementRef and then does something. We can wrap it around the 'afterNextRender' hook and ensure that it is only executed on the browser.

    export class MyComponent {
        @ViewChild('content') contentRef: ElementRef;
        constructor() {
            afterNextRender(() => {
                // Safe to check `scrollHeight` because this will only run in the browser, not the server.
                console.log('content height: ' + this.contentRef.nativeElement.scrollHeight);
            });
        }
    }

As we know, the 'afterRender' hook triggers after every change detection cycle so if that's not what we want, we can use 'afterNextRender' which executes only once per tick and then destroys itself.

Typically, 'afterNextRender' is ideal for performing one-time initializations, such as integrating third-party libraries or utilizing browser-specific APIs.