When we talk about Server-side Rendering in Angular, one concept that we always come across is "Hydration".

In a nutshell, this process restores a server-side rendered application on the client, and improves performance by avoiding extra work to re-create DOM nodes.

# WHAT IS ANGULAR HYDRATION

Angular Hydration is the process that restores a server-side rendered application on the client. It involves reusing the server-rendered DOM structures, preserving the application state, transferring application data that was already retrieved by the server, and other processes. The purpose of hydration is to improve application performance by reusing existing DOM elements, avoiding extra work to recreate them, and preventing visible UI flickers.

Imagine you have an Angular application that displays a list of blog posts. To improve the initial load time and SEO, you decide to implement server-side rendering (SSR) using Angular SSR. When a user requests your web page, the server generates the HTML content, including the list of blog posts, and sends it to the user's browser.

Without hydration, the browser would receive the server-rendered HTML, display it to the user, and then destroy and re-render the DOM when Angular initializes the client-side application. This could result in a visible UI flicker and negatively impact performance metrics like First Input Delay (FID) and Largest Contentful Paint (LCP).

With Angular Hydration enabled, instead of destroying and re-rendering the DOM, the client-side Angular application tries to match the existing DOM elements to the application structure at runtime. By reusing these existing DOM elements, Angular Hydration can prevent the UI flicker and improve performance.

For example, let's say the server-rendered HTML structure for the blog posts looks like this:

    <div>
        <h1>Blog Title</h1>
        <ul>
            <li>Post 1</li>
            <li>Post 2</li>
            <li>Post 3</li>
        </ul>
    </div>

When Angular Hydration is enabled, the client-side Angular application would recognize the existing DOM structure, match it with the application's structure, and reuse the DOM nodes instead of recreating them. As a result, the user would not see a UI flicker, and the performance of the application would be improved.

# TURNING THE ANGULAR HYDRATION ON

If you go to the "app.config.ts" file after you add the Angular SSR functionality to your app, you will see that it adds this function to the "providers" array - 

    provideClientHydration()

This sets up providers necessary to enable hydration functionality for the application. It means that the hydration is enabled by default in latest Angular versions as soon as you add the SSR functionality.

While running an application in dev mode, you can confirm hydration is enabled by opening the Developer Tools in your browser and viewing the console. You should see a message that includes hydration-related stats, such as the number of components and nodes hydrated. Something like this - 


    Angular hydrated 2 component(s) and 19 node(s), 0 component(s) were skipped. Learn more at https://angular.dev/guide/hydration.

Angular calculates the stats based on all components rendered on a page, including those that come from third-party libraries.

# REPLAYING EVENTS

When an application is rendered on the server, it is visible in a browser as soon as produced HTML loads. |

Users may assume that they can interact with the page, but event listeners are not attached until hydration completes. 

Starting from Angular 18, you can enable the 'Event Replay' feature that allows to capture all events that happen before hydration and replay those events once hydration has completed. You can enable it using the 'withEventReplay()' function, for example:

    provideClientHydration(withEventReplay())

'Event Replay' is a feature that improves user experience by capturing user events that were triggered before the hydration process is complete. Then those events are replayed, ensuring none of that interaction was lost.


# HOW TO SKIP HYDRATION FOR SPECIFIC COMPONENTS

To skip hydration for specific components, you can use the "ngSkipHydration" attribute. Here are two ways to apply it:

## 1. ADDING THE ATTRIBUTE TO THE SELECTOR

    <example-cmp ngSkipHydration />

## 2. ADDING THE ATTRIBUTE IN THE @Component DECORATOR - 

    @Component({
        ...
        host: {ngSkipHydration: 'true'},
    })
    class ExampleCmp {}

The 'ngSkipHydration' attribute forces Angular to skip hydrating the entire component and its children. As a result, the component will behave as if hydration is not enabled, meaning it will destroy and re-render itself.

Keep in mind that adding the 'ngSkipHydration' attribute to your root application component would effectively disable hydration for your entire application. Be careful and thoughtful about using this attribute. It is intended as a last resort workaround. Components that break hydration should be considered bugs that need to be fixed.

# WHEN TO SKIP HYDRATION FOR SPECIFIC COMPONENTS

 - **Direct DOM manipulation**: If a component directly manipulates the DOM using native DOM APIs, it can cause hydration errors. Skipping hydration for that component can be a temporary workaround until the component is refactored to use Angular constructs. Specific cases where DOM manipulation is a problem are situations like accessing the "document", querying for specific elements, and injecting additional nodes using "appendChild". 

This is because Angular is unaware of these DOM changes and cannot resolve them during the hydration process. Angular will expect a certain structure, but it will encounter a different structure when attempting to hydrate. This mismatch will result in hydration failure and throw a DOM mismatch error.

 - **Third-party libraries**: Some third-party libraries, like D3 charts, rely on DOM manipulation and might cause DOM mismatch errors when hydration is enabled. You can skip hydration for components that use such libraries to avoid errors.

# VALID HTML STRUCTURE

There are a few cases where if you have a component template that does not have valid HTML structure, this could result in a DOM mismatch error during hydration.

As an example, here are some of the most common cases of this issue.

    <table> without a <tbody>
    <div> inside a <p>
    <a> inside an <h1>
    <a> inside another <a>

Here is a good video explaining Angular Hydration with a nice example -> https://youtu.be/2tHozZWMm18