SSG or "Static Site Generation" is also referred to as "Pre-rendering". It is a method of generating static HTML pages at build time. This means that the HTML for each page is generated when the application is built, rather than at runtime when a user requests the page. This can lead to faster load times and improved performance, as the server does not need to generate the HTML on each request.

So, we get the same performance benefits as SSR, but we also get a reduced Time to First Byte (TTFB).

The key distinction versus SSR lies in the approach that pages are served as static content, and there is no request-based rendering.

If all the pages are pre-rendered then you can use a static web server. This can lead to significant cost savings compared to using a server that needs to render pages on demand.

Otherwise, you have to use a dynamic web server just as in case of SSR.

The potential disadvantage of SSG is that there is no dynamic server-side data fetching. Let's say we pre-render a page that fetches data. That data will be fetched during the build process and will be static. If the data changes, the page will not reflect those changes until the next build. So, until the next build, the page might show outdated data.

If you added SSR to your Angular app, you will see that in "angular.json", by default, the property "pre-render" is set to true. It means Angular tries to identify what pages can be pre-rendered. 

By default, Angular looks at the router configuration and see what all routes are there that do not have dynamic route parameters (For example, product/:id, where id is dynamically provided) in their path. Then it will pre-render those pages. It makes sense because Angular does not know what the value of 'id' or any other dynamic route parameter is at build time. So, it cannot pre-render that page.

If you run "ng build" command then you will see that in the terminal, it will tell you how many routes were pre-rendered. In our project, you will see in the "dist" folder there will be a file named "prerendered-routes.json" which will show all the routes that are pre-rendered.

# CUSTOM BUILD OPTIONS FOR PRE-RENDERING

Of course Angular provides us with the ability to customize the pre-rendering process. We can specify which routes we want to pre-render and which ones we do not want to pre-render.

The property "prerender" can also take an object as its value and not just a simple boolean.

When it is an object, we can add the following properties:

    1. discoverRoutes - Whether the builder should process the Angular Router configuration to find all unparameterized routes and pre-render them. The default value is 'true'.
    2. routesFile - The path to a file that contains a list of all routes to pre-render, separated by newlines. This option is useful if you want to pre-render routes with parameterized URLs.

So, let's say we want to pre-renders the routes for "product/:id" for the "id" values 1 and 2.

That is, we want to pre-render the following routes:

    /product/1
    /product/2

So, we can create a 'text' file which can have any name in the root of our project and add these two routes in that file -

    /product/1
    /product/2

Let's say the file name is "routes.txt".

And now, we can update the "routesFile" property like this -

    "prerender": {
        "routesFile": "routes.txt"
    }

This configures 'ng build' to pre-render /products/1 and /products/2 at build time. Since we did not set the "discoverRoutes" property, it will be set to 'true' by default. So, all the other routes that do not have dynamic route parameters will also be pre-rendered (The default behavior).