
# WHAT IS CONTENT PROJECTION?

Content projection is a pattern in which you insert, or project, the content you want to use inside another component. 

For example, you could have a component "A" that accepts content provided by another component "B".

Suppose, the html code where we add the server content and distinguish based on whether it is server or blueprint, will be projected by App Component into the Server Element component.

Right now, this is how the server element component looks like - 

    <div class="panel-body">
            <p>
            <strong *ngIf="element.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ element.content }}</strong>
            <em *ngIf="element.type === 'blueprint'">{{ element.content }}</em>
            </p>
    </div>


So, we want this paragraph to we projected from App component.

So, what if we cut this paragrpah from here and place it between the selector of this Server Element component in app component template.

    After cutting, server element template looks like - 

        <div class="panel-body">
            
        </div>

    App Component template looks like - 

    <app-server-element 
      *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements"
      [serverElement]="serverElement"
      >
      <p>
          <strong *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ serverElement.content }}</strong>
          <em *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'blueprint'">{{ serverElement.content }}</em>
      </p>
    </app-server-element>

So, it should work as before, right?

NO it won't work! 

Why? Beacuse by default, Angular will ignore any template that is written betwen the opening and closing tags of a component.

But there is a way to not ignore that template. And that's using "ng-content".

In the server element component, we can tell Angular where we want to accept the content that App Component is passing.

    <div class="panel-body">
         <ng-content></ng-content>
    </div>

Now, it means, whatever is passed between the opening and closing tags of <app-server-element>, that will be placed where we have put <ng-content>in the server element component.

Note that the <ng-content> element is a placeholder that does not create a real DOM element.

This type of Content Projection is called "Single-slot Content Projection".

There are other types as well.

# MULTI-SLOT CONTENT PROJECTION

A component can have multiple slots. Each slot can specify a CSS selector that determines which content goes into that slot. This pattern is referred to as multi-slot content projection. 

With this pattern, you must specify where you want the projected content to appear. You accomplish this task by using the "select" attribute of <ng-content>.

To understand this, let's say we also want to get the <div> where we show server name from app Component. In that case, we should use another <ng-content>

But, now the issue is, since we have two ng-content, we have to tell Angular which content to project in which. By default, if we do not use the "select" attribute of <ng-content> and there are multiple <ng-content> in a component, Angular will consider the last occurance only.

So, we can add an attribute to our content that we are passing in the app component html.

    app-server-element 
      *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements"
      [serverElement]="serverElement"
      >

      <!-- We set a 'serverName' attribute on it -->
      <div serverName class="panel-heading">
        {{ serverElement.name }}
      </div>

      <!-- No attribute on this part -->
      <p>
          <strong *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ serverElement.content }}</strong>
          <em *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'blueprint'">{{ serverElement.content }}</em>
      </p>
    </app-server-element>


Now, inside server element template, we can now choose which code to accept based on the attribute - 

    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <!-- Only show the template where attribute is "serverName"  -->
        <ng-content select="[serverName]"></ng-content>
        <div class="panel-body">
            <ng-content></ng-content>
        </div>
    </div>


But wait. We only added "select" attribute of ng-content in one place. What about the other? Wouldn't it still get the whole content in it? 

NO! The thing is  - 

    If your component includes an <ng-content> element without a select attribute, that instance receives all projected components that do not match any of the other <ng-content> elements.

It means, whatever first <ng-content> does not receive, that is received by the second <ng-content>

It means, since the first <ng-content> does not receive the <p>  that is received by the second ng content.

# WHAT ALL TYPES OF SELECTORS WE CAN USE?

Can we only use the attributes as values of "select"? 

NO! We can even use class names.

For example, if in app component html, we have - 

    <app-server-element 
      *ngFor="let serverElement of serverElements"
      [serverElement]="serverElement"
      >

        <div class="panel-heading">{{ serverElement.name }}</div>
        
        <div class="panel-body">
            <p>
                <strong *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'server'" style="color: red">{{ serverElement.content }}</strong>
                <em *ngIf="serverElement.type === 'blueprint'">{{ serverElement.content }}</em>
            </p>
        </div>

      
    </app-server-element>


Then, we can use the classes as selectors in server element component html - 

    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <ng-content select=".panel-heading"></ng-content>
        <ng-content select=".panel-body"></ng-content>    
    </div>

So it means, in first <ng-content>, only show the html code that has class .panel-heading. And same case for other <ng-content>

And similarly, we can also use ids as selectors.

    <div class="panel panel-default">
        <ng-content select="#abc"></ng-content>
        <ng-content select="#abc"></ng-content>    
    </div>

# ngProjectAs


ngProjectAs is  useful when we wanted to project an ng-container with a certain selector.

Suppose, we have a component <app-xyz> that has this in its template - 

        <ng-content select="[foo]"></ng-content>


Now, this "foo" is an attribute that we can set when we project content into this component. There are two ways - 

1. Using a redundant div - 

    <app-xyz>
        <div foo>
            <h1> ABC </h1>
            <p> ABC </p>
        </div> 
    </app-xyz>

2. Using ngProjectAs - 

    <app-xyz>
        <ng-container ngProjectAs="[foo]">
            <h1> ABC </h1>
            <p> ABC </p>
        </ng-container> 
    </app-xyz>


But what's the use? They both look similar right?

Well, the thing is, when we use a "div" then it creates an actual <div> element in the DOM around our h1 and p. We may not want that to happen since it can alter the design.

But, when we use ng-container, that is just a placeholder. It is not actually created in the DOM. 





