# WHAT IS ROUTING AND WHY DO WE NEED IT?

We use Angular to create "Single Page Applications" and as the name says, there is a single HTML page that is rendered on the browser and all Angular does is change the content on that page by showing different components, based on the logic we write.

In a traditional multi-page application, when a user navigates to a different link or page, the URL in the browser also changes, giving the user a feeling that it is a new page.

Routing refers to splitting the application into different pages based on the value of the URL. This means, if we go to a specific URL, then a specific page gets shown on the browser. 

For example, at localhost:4200/about, we see the about page
At localhost:4200/profile, we see the profile page 

And so on...

Routing is also helpful to protect some areas of the app based on some rules. For example, if we want that the user must login before accessing the homepage of our app, we can implement that restriction using Routing.

# ANGULAR ROUTER

Angular provides a built-in Routing functionality - Angular Router. Angular Router can take the current browser URL and use it as an instruction to show some specific page.

We can pass optional paramters as well that will help in deciding what will be shown on the browser at that particular URL.

When we generate a new Angular application using ng new, then we always get a prompt to add Routing in the app. 

But, we can explicitly tell Angular to add routing when generating a new app by doing - 

        ng new demo-app --routing

Once we do that, we see that in package.json, we get a new dependency "@angular/router". This means the Angular router has a different package of its own so it doesn't belong to @angular/core or any other package we have seen before.   

# STRUCTURE OF THE PROJECT IN THIS SECTION

We have a small project in this section to understand routing better. This small app has three sections - 

 1. Home
 2. Servers
    1. View and Edit Servers
    2. A service is used to load and update the servers
 3. Users
    1. View users

Initially, the project does not use Routing so everything is on a single page whose URL never changes. We will improve this app by adding routing.
