When we used Router links, we set the path as - 

    <li role="presentation"><a routerLink="/servers">Servers</a></li>

So, why did we write "/servers" when we use routerLink but when we defined the routes, we wrote "servers" without a slash?

Let's try to write it without a slash in the routerLink.

    <li role="presentation"><a routerLink="servers">Servers</a></li>

Oh wow. It is stil working fine!

So what is the issue? Why are we no using it without a slash?

To understand this, let's add another routerlink inside the Servers component.

    <a routerLink="servers">Reload this page</a>

Now, on clicking this, it should just show us the same component that we are currently on right? 

But, when we click this link, we get an error in the console. The error says - 

    Cannot match any routes. URL Segment: 'servers/servers'

It means, when we click on this link, we are telling angular to route is to "localhost:4200/servers/servers" url which is not defined at all.

And now, we can understand what is the use of the slash "/" that we are using in routerLink.

# RELATIVE vs ABSOLUTE PATHS

When we did not use a slash "/", then we use "Relative Path" which means the path is relative to the current URL. And since the current url was already localhost:4200/servers, it means the "servers" path was simply added to this current url to make it - localhost:4200/servers/servers.

When we use a slash "/", we use an "Absolute Path" which means append the path to the root url. In Angular, the root URL is normally localhost:4200. So, using "/servers" means append this path to the root url to make it localhost:4200/servers.

That's why, when in the app.component.html, we removed the slash from the routerLink, nothing changed and there was no error. Because, even though the path was relative, the current URL was simply the root URL since we were in the app component which is the root component.

So it means, in the root component, we can use either relative or absolute paths and nothing will change. But except that, we have to think which type of path to use otherwise it can cause errors.

In Simple words -> 

    The path with reference to root directory/url is called absolute.

    The path with reference to current directory/url is called relative.


This also means that let's say we want to go to a route like - 

    localhost:4200/servers/test-server

In this case, when we define a link for the "test-server" page, then we will not use the absolute path there (we will not use the slash). We will use a relative path in that case because we want "test-server" to be appended to the current URL, not to the root URL.

Another way to use relative paths is to use "./" before the path.

For example -> 

    <a routerLink="./servers">Reload this page</a>

This is the same as saying - 

    <a routerLink="servers">Reload this page</a>

This is kind of similar to navigating in folders using the "cd" command.

So, if we want to go one level above, we can say -> 

    <a routerLink="../servers">Reload this page</a>

And so, if the above link is inside http://localhost:4200/servers path, then it will first go one level up to http://localhost:4200 and then append "servers" to that path.

So yes, we can make relative paths work as absolute paths in any page but sometimes, it will become messy if we have too many nested components.