We see that while we are able to navigate to different tabs on clicking the links in the menu, the selected link does not get highlighted.

We do have an "active" class in the app.component.css that we use to style the link that is currently active.

So, now that we are using Routing, how to dynamically add the "active" class to the links that are currently active?

For that, we have a directive that Angular provides - "routerLinkActive".

This directive is used to add class to an element when the link's route becomes "active". 


    <li role="presentation" routerLinkActive="active">
        <a routerLink="/">Home</a>
    </li>

We can use this "routerLinkActive" directive on the <a> element as well as the <li> element that wraps the <a> element.

    <li role="presentation">
        <a routerLink="/" routerLinkActive="active">Home</a>
    </li>

 This just depends on how we are using the classes based on which UI library we are using.

So, now, our list of links looks like - 

        <li role="presentation" routerLinkActive="active"><a routerLink="/">Home</a></li>
        <li role="presentation" routerLinkActive="active"><a routerLink="/servers">Servers</a></li>
        <li role="presentation" routerLinkActive="active"><a routerLink="/users">Users</a></li>

But, we notice one issue now on the page.

While the "Servers" and "Users" tabs are marked active when we click on them, the "Home" tab is always having the "active" class. 

That's because of how the "routerLinkActive" determines whether the current link is active or not. It will match the browser URL with the URL in the "routerLink" directive. If there is a match, then it applies the class mentioned in "routerLinkActive". 

And since the "Home" route is simply "/" or an empty path, this is always present in the current browser URL. So, that's why for "Home" tab, the class "active" is always present.

Another example can be if we have these three links/tabs - 

    <a routerLink="/product" routerLinkActive="active">Product</a>
    <a routerLink="/product/PC" routerLinkActive="active">PC</a>
    <a routerLink="/product/mobile" routerLinkActive="active">Mobile</a>

In this case, no matter if you are on /product/PC or /product/mobile tab, the /product tab will always have the "active" class because "/product" is present in all the routes.

So, what should we do to avoid this issue?

# EXACT MATCHING

We can use another property alongside routerLinkActive, named "routerLinkActiveOptions".

This is not another directive. Instead, this is an input that the routerLinkActive directive can receive from outside. You can understand this by looking at the github code for routerLinkActive directive - 

    https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/router/src/directives/router_link_active.ts

The value of this property is an Object to which we can pass various options.

One such option is "exact".

When "exact" is set to true, it means only add the "active" class when the browser URL exactly matches the routerLink url.

So now, "/" is only matched when there is nothing after localhost:4200 or localhost:4200/ in the browser URL.

    <li 
        role="presentation" 
        routerLinkActive="active"
        [routerLinkActiveOptions]="{exact: true}"
    >
        <a routerLink="/">Home</a>
    </li>

It is not necessary to add this routerLinkActiveOptions to all the links. We can add it only to those links to which the active class is being applied incorrectly.