We saw how we can access the Route Parameter's value using the "snapshot" object of the ActivatedRoute. 

But, this is not the best approach to do this. 

To understand why, let's say that inside the User Component, we have a link that navigates us to another user's details.

For example, let's say we want to go to /users/10/John when we click that link. So, we can use RouterLink here.

    <a [routerLink]="['/users', 10, 'John']">Click Me</a>

Do note that here we are using property binding and by doing so, we can pass an array of values that Angular will automatically join together to create a url.

So, the above routerLink will have path as "/users/10/John"

Anyways, when we click this link, we see something weird.

There is no error in console, but we see that when we click the button, the URL changes in the browser. But, the details still shown on page are still the old ones. These did not get updated.

That's the issue with using the "snapshot" object to access the route parameters.

The snapshot object does not react to changes to the route parameters when we are on the same page.

Here, we were on the route users/1/Arvind initially and from the same route, we went to users/10/John. While the parameter values are different, the Route itself is still the same and so, the component does not get reloaded and hence, ngOnInit is not called.

That's why the values of route parameters are not updated, even though the URL changes.

But, this can break our application as this is not the behavior we want.

What we want is, as the parameter values change, we should react to those changes and update the component accordingly. And that's something we cannot do using the "snapshot" object of the ActivatedRoute.


# SUBSCRIBING TO "PARAMS" OBSERVABLE

Apart from the "snapshot" object, the ActivatedRoute also gives us access to an "Observable" named "params". We will learn about Observables later but for now, we can understand that an Observable is something that we use to handle common async tasks. 

The changing of the route parameters values is an async task because we don't know when they will get changed. So, we want to keep an eye on that change so that when the values change, we update them in our component as well.

And so, we can "Subscribe" to this observable so that when some parameter value changes, it will give us the updated parameter values.

    this.route.params.subscribe( {
      next: data => {
        this.user.id = data['id']
        this.user.name = data['name']
      }
    })

# SUBSCRIBING TO "PARAMMAP" OBSERVABLE

There is another Observable that Activated Route gives us which we can use named "ParamMap". The usage is similar to the "params" observable, just that the "params" observable gives an array of Params, whereas the "paramMap" observable gives a map of Params.

Since it gives us a map, to access the value of a parameter, we have to use "get" method.

    this.route.paramMap.subscribe( {
      next: data => {
        let id  = Number(data.get('id'));
        let name = data.get('name');

        this.user = {
          id,
          name
        }
      }
    })


# SNAPSHOT OR OBSERVABLE? WHICH ONE TO USE?

We usually retrieve the value of the parameter in the ngOninit life cycle hook, when the component is initialized.

When the user navigates to the component again, and if the component is already loaded, Angular does not create the new component but reuses the existing instance. In such circumstances, the ngOnInit method of the component is not called again. Hence you need a way to get the value of the parameter.

By subscribing to the params or paramMap observable, you will get a notification when the value changes. Hence you can retrieve the latest value of the parameter and update the component accordingly.

Do note that it does not mean using params or paramMap will run the whole ngOnInit again. It will only run the code that we write inside the callback of the subscribe method of "params" or "paramMap".

# MAKE SURE TO UNSUBSCRIBE TO SUBSCRIPTIONS

We should always unsubscribe to the subscriptions when the component gets destroyed otherwise there can be memory leak issues.

Every Observable to which we subscribe gives a "Subscription" object as return value which we can store somewhere and when the component gets destroyed, we can unsubscribe using this "Subscription" object.

    ngOnDestroy() {
        this.paramsSubscription.unsubscribe();
     }