We now know how we can pass Query parameters and Fragments in the URL while navigating.

But, what about retrieving them?

In case of Route Parameters, we had several options such as using the "snapshot" object of ActivatedRoute, using "paramMap" observable, using "params" observable etc.

What about Query Parameters and Fragments?

Well, we can do the same things for Query Parameters and Fragments.

# USING SNAPSHOT OBJECT TO RETRIEVE THE VALUES

The "snapshot" object of "ActivatedRoute" also gives us access to the "queryParams" object and the "fragment" string value.

So, we can simply access them as - 

    this.route.snapshot.queryParams
    this.route.snapshot.fragment

But then again, let's say we are on the page - 

     localhost:4200/servers/5/edit?allowEdit=1#serverName

Now, if, while on this page, we do some operation such that the queryParameter value for allowEdit changes to "0", the URL will become - 

     localhost:4200/servers/5/edit?allowEdit=0#serverName

But still, the application will not update the logic because the ngOnInit will not run again since we are on the same Route.

That's the disadvantage of using the "snapshot" object because it does not tell us when some route paramters or query paramters or fragment value changes.

# USING OBSERVABLES TO RETRIEVE THE VALUES

And the solution of this problem is to use the Observables instead of the "snapshot" object.

To access Query Parameters, the ActivatedRoute provides two different observables - 

## 1. USING "queryParams" OBSERVABLE

   this.route.queryParams.subscribe(params => {
      this.allowEdit = params.allowEdit;
    })

## 2. USING "queryParamMap" OBSERVABLE    

   this.route.queryParamMap.subscribe(params => {
      this.allowEdit = params.get('allowEdit');
    })

And to access the Fragment, there is a single observable named "fragment"  -

## USING "fragment" OBSERVABLE

   this.route.fragment.subscribe(fragment => {
      this.fragment = fragment;
    })


And as always, it is a good practice to unsubscribe when we are done, even though Angular takes care of that in case of the ActivatedRoute and its observables. 

The ActivatedRoute and its observables are insulated from the Router itself so the Angular Router destroys a routed component when it is no longer needed and the injected ActivatedRoute dies with it. No need to explicitly unsubscribe from the activated route, but it is a good practice.