Starting with Angular 16, we have a new way to fetch route parameters using input bindings. We won't need to inject the "ActivatedRoute" service anymore.

So, in our case, since the path is like this - 

    {path: 'users/:id/:name', component: UserComponent}

We can simply access the values for these route paramters using -
    
    @Input() id: string;
    @Input() name: string;

But, we have to explicitly enable this feature in the app routing module. There, we have to provide one property in the "forRoot()" method's object which is named "bindToComponentInputs". And as you might've guessed already, we need to set it to "true".

    imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes, {useHash: true, bindToComponentInputs: true})]

In case you are having a standalone Angular app without any 'NgModule', you can use "withComponentInputBinding()" like this -

    bootstrapApplication(App, {
    providers: [
        provideRouter(routes, 
            //... other features
            withComponentInputBinding() // <-- enable this feature
        )
    ],
    });

And now, we can access the route parameters using the input bindings.

This new api will bind the route information to the component inputs in the following order:

    Data 
    Path params
    Query params

If there's no data, it will use the path params, if there's no path params, it will use the query params If there's no query params, the value input will be undefined!

This means, if we have -

    {
        path: 'test/:value',
        component: TestComponent,
        data: { value: 'Hello from data' },
    }

And in the component we have -

    @Input() value: string;

In this case, Angular will first check the "data" onject to see if it has a "value" property in it. If yes, then the component's "value" input will be set to that value. If not, it will check the path params and then the query params. If none of them have the value, then the component's "value" input will be set to "undefined".

So, we can now update our user.component.ts file to be as simple as this -

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-user',
        templateUrl: './user.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./user.component.css'],
        standalone: false
    })
    export class UserComponent implements OnInit, OnDestroy {
        @Input({required: true}) id: number;
        @Input({required: true}) name: string;
    }

This is a big improvement in the lines of code because earlier, we had to inject the "ActivatedRoute" then we had to either use the properties or the observables to get the route parameters. But now, we can simply get them using the input bindings. Isn't that cool?

# FETCHING ROUTE PARAMETERS USING SIGNAL INPUTS

In newer Angular versions, we can also utilize signals to get the route parameters. Instead of writing -

    @Input({required: true}) id: number;
    @Input({required: true}) name: string;

We can write -

    id = input.required<number>();
    name = input.required<string>();

And accordingly we can update the template -
    
    <p>User with ID {{id()}} loaded.</p>
    <p>User name is {{name()}}</p>

So, what should you use? Observables or input bindings?

Sometimes we want the route parameters to be observables, so we can combine them with other observable to get some data. If you use the input bindings in that case then your code might become messy because you need to then maybe have separate subjects or behavior subjects for the respective inputs and then whenever a new input comes you need to call ".next()" on those subjects/behavior subjects and then use those as observables and so on.

Something like this -

    id$ = new BehaviorSubject<number | null>(null);
    name$ = new BehaviorSubject<string | null>(null);

    @Input() set id(id: string) { this.id$.next(id); }
    @Input() set name(name: string) { this.name$.next(name); }

Or, if you are using input signals, you can use "toObservable" from "rxjs-interop" to convert the signal to an observable and then use it -

    id = input.required<number>();
    name = input.required<string>();

    id$ = toObservable(this.id);
    name$ = toObservable(this.name)

So, if your use case is simple and you just need the route parameters, then you can use the input bindings. But if you need to combine them with other observables or you have a more complex use case, then you can use the observables.

