So far, we have set up our Routes such that when we click on any Server or any User, a new page gets loaded with the details of the Server or the User.


But, it would be nicer to load the details in the same page where we have the server and user list. 

Okay, so why not just use the selector of the Server component inside Servers component ?

Something like 

    <app-server></app-server>

    In the servers.component.html


But, now, we will see that as soon as the Servers page is opened, we see an error in the console.

    Cannot read properties of undefined (reading 'name')

That's because, since we used the app-server selector in the Servers component, Angular will load this component inside the Servers component as soon as we load the Servers page.

But the thing is, as soon as we load the page, we don't have the data about which Server is selected. So, that's why the name of the server is undefined when Angular is trying to render the Server component inside Servers component. And hence, we see this error.

We only want to load the Server/User component when the user clicks on some server or User name.

So, this is kind of similar to how we added routing initially for the tabs such that when user clicks on a tab, only then the respective component gets loaded.

This means, we have to add router-outlet to the servers.component.html so that when we click any Server, those details are then loaded in place of that router-outlet.

That's something we do using "Child Routes". These are also called "Nested Routes" because these are the Routes within other routes.

When we know that some routes may only be accessible and viewable inside other routes, it is better to create them as child routes. 

Here, we want the Server component to be loaded inside the Servers component so that's why, we want the route for the Server component to be nested inside the Route of the Severs Component.

# CREATING NESTED ROUTES IN APP ROUTING MODULE

As mentioned above, we want to nest the route related to the "ServerComponent" inside the "Servers Component". We can do that by using a property called "children" that each Route Object in the Route array has.

This property lets us define the child routes for that particular Route.

And here, we can pass a list of Routes which will now be the Child Routes for the /servers route. 


    {path: 'servers', component: ServersComponent, children: [
        {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent}
    ]}

Do note how we do not start the child route with '/servers' because "/servers" is already the parent route for this so it will always be present in the beginning of the path for this Component.

And similarly, we can also add the Server Edit component as a Child of the Servers component.

    {path: 'servers', component: ServersComponent, children: [
      {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent},
      {path: ':id/edit', component: EditServerComponent}
    ]}

And now, we have created two child Routes of the "servers" route.

But now the question is, how to show the respective components on "Servers" page? Well, that's pretty straightforward. We just need to use router-outlet in Servers.component.html.

And this means, we will no longer get the undefined name error which we got initially. That's because we are not loading the Server component as soon as we land on the Servers page. We will only load it if the /servers/:id route gets activated, which will only happen if we click on some server.

And we can do the same for the Users routes.

    {path: 'users', component: UsersComponent, children: [
      {path: ':id/:name', component: UserComponent}
    ]},

And we add router-outlet in the Users component as well.

So now, the User details will show up in the same page as the Users list.

# ISSUE WITH QUERY PARAMETERS AFTER USING NESTED ROUTES

Let's add a button to the Server Component such that clicking this button allows us to Edit that particular server.

We know that the edit route is - /servers/:id/edit

And since we are adding this button in the Server Component, and this Server Component is loaded at /servers/:id, we can use a relative path here, since all we want is to append "edit" at the end.

In the Server component, we will add 

    <a class="btn btn-primary" [routerLink]="['edit']">
     Edit Server
    </a>

Now, when we click the Edit button, we will see the Edit component in the same screen.

But now, there is one issue. When we open details of any server, we also pass query parameter "allowEdit" at that time. But, here, when we navigate to the edit page, those query parameters are lost. 

So, if we have any logic in the Edit Server component to only edit the server if "allowEdit" is "1", then that logic will no longer work here because the query parameter is getting lost when the route changes to /edit.

# CONFIGURING THE HANDLING OF QUERY PARAMETERS

We want to preserve the information about the query parameters which we have at the time we load details of a Single Server. 

This information is otherwise getting lost as soon as we navigate from Single Server component to Edit server component.

One way would be to manually pass the same query Parameter that we receive on the Single Component route. But that's not a good way to fix this issue.

The best way is to use a property that routerLink directive accepts as input named "queryParamsHandling". This property gets a "String" value which can be one of these -

 1. "merge" - Merge new Query Parameters with Current Parameters
 2. "preserve" - Preserve the current parameters
 3. ""  - Replace current parameters with new Parameters (DEFAULT)

Here, we are not passing any extra query parameters when we navigate to the "edit" route so we will use "preserve" as the value of "queryParamsHandling" property.

    <a 
    class="btn btn-primary" 
    [routerLink]="['edit']" 
    queryParamsHandling="preserve"
    > 
        Edit Server
    </a>


And now, you will see that as we click the "Edit" button on the Single Server component, the URL changes to /server/id/edit and along with that, it now has the "allowEdit" query parameter attached as well. So now, the query parameters are getting preserved as the routes change.


# CONFIGURING THE HANDLING OF QUERY PARAMETERS PROGRAMMATICALLY

We can do the same thing using the Angular Router in the .ts file - 

    this.router.navigate(['edit'], {relativeTo: this.route, queryParamsHandling: 'preserve'})


Note that in this case, we have to explicitly tell Angular to use relative path because as we know, in navigate method, the path is absolute by default.

# WHEN TO USE "merge" AS THE VALUE FOR queryParamsHandling

As we understood, "merge" will Merge new Query Parameters with Current Parameters.

To understand this, let's pass a new query parameter to the "edit" route named "test" and lets say value is "20".

    <a 
    class="btn btn-primary" 
    [routerLink]="['edit']" 
    [queryParams]="{test: 20}"
    queryParamsHandling="preserve"
    > 
        Edit Server
    </a>

Now, if we click on "Edit" button, we will not see the "test" queryParameter in the URL because we are using "preserve" here. Preserve will use the current query parameters instead of the ones that we are passing.

Since we want to use both, we have to use "merge" in this case.

    <a 
    class="btn btn-primary" 
    [routerLink]="['edit']" 
    [queryParams]="{test: 20}"
    queryParamsHandling="merge"
    > 
        Edit Server
    </a>

And now, the URL will have both "allowEdit" as well as "test" query parameters.

If we don't want to preserve the query parameters and only want to use the new ones, we can remove the queryParamshandling property altogether or set its value as an empty string.

    <a 
    class="btn btn-primary" 
    [routerLink]="['edit']" 
    [queryParams]="{test: 20}"
    queryParamsHandling=""
    > 
        Edit Server
    </a>