So far, we saw how we can create various Routes in our application and then let the user navigate to those routes and see difference components.

But, sometimes, we want to control the access to Routes. For example, let's say we have an application that requires the user to be logged in before the user can access the dashboard. In that case, if the user tries to manually go to the dashboard url, we should not show the dashboard if the user is not yet logged in. In that case, we should redirect the user back to login page.

That's something we can achieve using something called "Route Guards".

You might argue that this is something we can check in the ngOnInit method of the dashboard component and redirect the user if not logged in. But think about in how many components we would have to do this same thing if we don't want users to access them if they are not logged in. We will have so many duplicate logic all over the place.

So, a better approach is using Route Guards that keep the logic in one single place.

There are also situations when, lets say, a user is filling some form on a page and hits the back button. In that case, since we don't want the user to lose the form data, we can ask the user to confirm whether to leave this page or not. Again, that is something we can implement using Route Guards.

Or let's say before we display any component on some route, we want to fetch some data. 

So, the uses of Route Guards in Angular include - 

 - To Confirm the navigational operation
 - Asking whether to save before moving away from a view
 - Allow access to certain parts of the application to specific users
 - Validating the route parameters before navigating to the route
 - Fetching some data before you display the component.

Angular Router provides different types of guards that we can use to protect the routes. Some popular ones are - 

    1. CanActivate
    2. CanActivateChild
    3. CanDeactivate
    4. Resolve
    5. CanMatch

There used to be a "CanLoad" guard but it is now deprecated in favor of the "CanMatch" guard.