We saw that when we add a canActivate route to the parent route, then it also applies to all the child routes.

But, what if we want to let the user access the parent route, but guard the child routes. That is, there is no check on the parent route but when the user tries to access any child route, we first check if the user is authenticated or authorized or not?

So, let's take the /servers route again.

It has two child routes -> /servers/:id and /servers/:id/edit

How can we protect these two child routes but let the user access servers route?

One way would be to use canActivate property only on child routes, not on parent route. And that will work as expected.

    {path: 'servers', component: ServersComponent, children: [
      {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent, canActivate: [AuthGuard]},
      {path: ':id/edit', component: EditServerComponent, canActivate: [AuthGuard]}
    ]},

But, just think about the case when we have like 5-10 child routes in each route. In that case, we will have to add the canActivate property in all of them. And let's say in future, we want to add another canActivate route guard to all the children. Again, we will have to add it in all the routes manually.

So, this is not the best option.

What if, we have some property that we can use such that we only use that property at one single place to define what all canActivate route guards are present for the child routes. And that will then be applied to all the child routes?

And well, we do have one such property. It is named "canActivateChild".

# HOW TO USE canActivateChild ROUTE GUARD?

Same as the canActivate route guard, we have to implmenet the "canActivateChild" interface in our guard file. (Or create a new guard that implements canActivateChild)

    export class AuthGuard implements CanActivate, CanActivateChild

And now, it will force us to implement a method named "canActivateChild()"

This method works the same way as canActivate. And in our case, since we want it to do the same thing, we can simply call canActivate inside it instead of copy pasting the code.

    canActivateChild( route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
    state: RouterStateSnapshot): Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean {
    return this.canActivate(route, state);
  }

And finally, we have to add this method to the Routes array.

The "canActivateChild" is a property we will add to the parent route. So that whatever route guards we mention in this property, they are all applied to all the child routes automatically.

    {path: 'servers', component: ServersComponent, canActivateChild: [AuthGuard], children: [
      {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent},
      {path: ':id/edit', component: EditServerComponent}
    ]},

And now, the /servers route is still accessible and not protected. But, all the child routes are now protected and user will only be allowed if the canActivateChild() method returns True.

Do Note that even though "AuthGuard" has both canActivate and canActivateChild methods, the property "canActivateChild" that we used in the route object will only execute whatever is present in the method "canActivateChild". It doesn't care about other methods in the file. So, we may have other route guards implemented in the same AuthGuard file but that won't affect anything.

Basically, the point is that for each route guard, it is not necessary to create a new auth guard file.

# CHECKING LOG IN AND LOG OUT FUNCTIONALITY

In our fake authentication service, we have a variable isLoggedIn which is initially false. We have two methods in that service named "login()" and "logout()" which update the value of the variable accordingly. And we also emit an event on updating the values.

Now, in our home component, let's add two buttons "Log In" and "Log Out". So, if the user is not logged in, we will show the "Log In" button. Otherwise, we will show the "Log Out" button.

    <div style="margin-top: 20px;">
        <button *ngIf="!isLoggedIn" class="btn btn-default" (click)="onLogin()">Log In</button>
        <button *ngIf="isLoggedIn"class="btn btn-default" (click)="onLogout()">Log Out</button>
    </div>

And inside the home component, we will keep listening to the even emitted by the Auth service to get the updated value of the flag.


    ngOnInit() {
        this.authService.loginStatus.subscribe(data => {
        this.isLoggedIn = data;
        })
    }



And now, we can test the logic that we have written for our guards.

So, if we have not logged in yet, we cannot access the /servers/:id or /servers/:id/edit routes.

But, once we click the "Log In" button, and then try to access those routes, we will be able to access them. That's just because this time, the isAuthenticated() method of the Auth Service will return True and this means user is logged in so now, the routes are accessible.