So, what does a canActivate Route Guard do?

As the name suggests, this decides whether to "activate" a route or not. So, it is useful in cases when we first want to check whether the user is authorized to navigate to the target component or not. 

To generate a Route Guard file, we can use this command in angular cli - 

    ng g g <name of the file>

For example, let's say we want to generate an Auth Guard so we will say - 

    ng g g auth

When you run this command, it will also ask you which interface you want to implement, let's start with canActivate for now.

If you open this newly generated "auth.guard.ts" file, you will see that it has the "@Injectable" decorator, just like the service files.

And since we implemented the "CanActivate" interface, we need to implement the method named "canActivate()".

And this is the method where we will write the logic to decide whether to activate the route or not. Note that "Activating" a route just means to "render the component" that we have set to render at that route in app routing module.

There are usually two main use cases where we want to use the canActivate Route Guard.

    - Checking if a user has logged in
    - Checking if a user has permission

So, we may want to first ensure that the user is logged in and only then show the page to the user.

Or, even if the user is logged in, we may want to make sure user is authorized to view that particular page.

In both cases, we can use the canActivate Route guard.


# CANACTIVATE() METHOD PARAMETERS

The canActivate() method that we have to implement accepts two parameters of following types -

 
## 1. ActivatedRouteSnapshot

The ActivatedRouteSnapshot, as the name says, contains information about the route that we are trying to access. It has information such as the title of the page, the parameters, URL, queryParams, data, fragment, and so on.

In fact, this is the same object that we had previously used to access the route parameters, query parameters and fragments. We used to access them as - this.route.snapshot, right?

And this snapshot object is the same object that the canActivate() method accepts as argument.

As we already know, this.route.snapshot does not give us latest values if we change the parameters.  That's because the ActivatedRotueSnapshot is an "immutable object". Once set, it does not change. And that's why in the canActivate(), we use the ActivatedRouteSnapshot object, not the ActivatedRoute. Because we want the initial values of the parameters once we go to any route.

## 2. RouterStateSnapshot

As the name shows, this object holds the information about the state of the router at a moment in time.

It has only one property named "URL" which, as the name shows, gives us the URL at any time canActivate() gets called.

And there is only one method it has named "toString()".

# HOW DOES CANACTIVATE() METHOD WORK?

The canActivate() method can return various types of values. These can be  -

    1. boolean
    2. UrlTree
    3. Observable<boolean>
    4. Observable<UrlTree>
    5. Promise<boolean>
    6. Promise<UrlTree>

Let's create an authentication service which will check if the user is logged in or not. This service, in a real-world application, usually talks to a server to check if the user is logged in or not, but here, we will fake this authentication. 

And just to simulate a behavior of checking with server for the user's login status, we have a method in this service which return a Promise, which in turns has a timeout of 800ms.

    isAuthenticated() {
    const promise = new Promise((resolve, reject) => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        resolve(this.loggedIn);
      }, 800)
    });
    return promise;
  }

Now, in our canActivate() method, we want to use this Auth Service to check if the user is logged in or not. If yes, then we simply return True and the route is activated. Otherwise, we will redirect the user back to the homepage.

Note that we are returning True or False inside the promise but also returning this whole promise by doing "return this.authService.isAuthenticated()". That's just because if you return something inside a promise, then that will give a new promise. 

    canActivate( route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot): Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean {
      return this.authService.isAuthenticated()
      .then((isLoggedin: boolean) => {
        if (isLoggedin) {
          return true;
        } else {
          this.router.navigate(['/']);
          return false;
        }
      })
    }

# USING THE CANACTIVATE ROUTE GUARD

So far, we have just defined a Route Guard that uses an Authentication service to check if the user is authenticated or not.

But, how to use this Guard ?

For that, we have to go back to the app routing module and there, we have to add this Guard to the route that we want to protect.

In every Object that we add to the Routes array, we have a property "canActivate". This property accepts an array as an input and in this array we can provide the name of the Service that implements the canActivate Route guard.

Here, the service is "AuthGuard" in our case.

Let's say we want to protect the "/servers" route.

So, we will do -    

    {path: 'servers', component: ServersComponent, children: [
      {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent},
      {path: ':id/edit', component: EditServerComponent}
    ], canActivate: [AuthGuard]},


So, we added a new property to this object named "canActivate" and set its value as an array which has "AuthGuard" service name.

But wait, why are we supposed to pass an array? 

Does that mean there can be multiple canActivate Route Guards for a single route? 

YES! There can be more than one canActivate Route guards for a route. And in case of multiple canActivate route guards, Angular will wait for all the canActivate methods in all the route guards to return True and only then activate the route. If only one of them return False, the navigation is cancelled.

Also, if we add a canActivate route guard to a route, that will also be applied to all the child routes.

That's why in above example, not only localhost:4200/servers but the localhost:4200/servers/1 and localhost:4200/servers/1/edit will not be accessible if canActivate() method of authGuard service return False.

# CANACTIVATE DEPRECATED? HERE IS HOW TO USE IT IN LATEST VERSIONS

In the latest Angular versions, specifically Angular 15 and above, you will see a warning in your IDE saying "CanActivate" is deprecated. That's because we no longer need to have a class that implements the "CanActivate" interface and then implement the "canActivate()" method.

Instead, we simply need to create a simple method that is of type "CanActivateFn".

So, inside auth.guard.ts, we can simply do -

  export const authGuard: CanActivateFn = 
    (route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot, router: Router = inject(Router), authService: AuthService = inject(AuthService)) => {

      ... LOGIC HERE
    }

A good real world example is in the "Authentication & Route Protection" section of this repo under the "Adding an Auth Guard" section. 