So far, we have seen how the "canActivate" and "canActivateChild" route guards work.

Both these Route Guards are used to allow or disallow access to a particular route, based on some checks.

But, what if the user is at some page and when the user leaves that page, we first want to confirm that action by showing some popup message.

A good example of this will be a page with a form. Suppose the user is filling some form and then in between, the user clicks some other link in the navigation or hits the back button in the browser. 

We cannot simply take the user back. What if it was an accidental click? If we simply take the user back, then whatever data was entered in the form which wasn't yet submitted will be lost and the user will have to start again.

So, generally, we have seen on many websites that in such a case, there is a popup that asks us whether we really want to leave the page or not since there is some unfinished task.

So, how to implement something like that in Angular?

Since we can use "canActivate" and "canActivateChild" route guards when user tries to access some route, Is there any Route Guard that works when the user tries to leave some route?

Yes. That Route Guard is the "canDeactivate" Route Guard.

# USE CASE IN OUR PROEJCT

We have some input fields on the edit server page. 

So, let's say that when we try to edit some server, then, it we hit the back button or hit some other link in the navbar, we want to show some sort of popup before navigating and so we want to confirm whether this navigation action was intentional or not.

Note that we do not want to show any popup or modal if the user has already saved the changes. In that case, we will need to track if the user saved the changes or not and we can do that easily with a boolean type variable in the edit-server.component.ts.


    onUpdateServer() {
        this.serversService.updateServer(this.server.id, {name: this.serverName, status: this.serverStatus});

        // Set changesSaved to True
        this.changesSaved = true;

        // Navigate back to the previous page
        this.router.navigate(['../'], {relativeTo: this.route, queryParamsHandling: 'merge'});
    }

The above method is called when the update button gets clicked on the edit server page. As we can see, we will call the updateServer method of the servers Service to update the serverName and status, and then set the "changesSaved" flag to true. And finally, we will navigate the user back to the previous page from where the user came.

Notice how we are using the relative path this time. 

"../" means go up one level.

We will have another method in this component named "onExit" which will show a confirm dialog if the user tries to navigate away from the page and the changes are not yet saved. We will understand how to use this method later. When we return "true" it just means let the user navigate away from current page. Otherwise, the user will stay on current page and navigation will be cancelled.

    onExit() {

        // If the user is not allowed to edit the server at all, return true
        if (!this.allowEdit) return true

        // If any of the values are changed in the input fields but the changes are not saved
        if ((this.serverName != this.server.name || this.serverStatus != this.server.status) && !this.changesSaved) {
        if(confirm("Are you sure you want to leave?"))  {
            return true;
        } else{
            return false;
        }
        }

        return true;
    }


# HOW TO USE CANDEACTIVATE ROUTE GUARD?

Just like the canActivate route guard, we need to define a Route Guard file for the canDeactivate that implements the "CanDeactivate" interface.

For now, let's create this route guard file inside the editServerComponent folder.

        ng g g candeactivate

While the class implements the "CanDeactivate" interface, it is like this by default - 

    export class CandeactivateGuard implements CanDeactivate<unknown>
    
 This unknown means that we have to explicity provide some type here. And that type is simply the component class on which we will use this CanDeactivate Route guard. In our case, it is the EditServerComponet.

    export class CandeactivateGuard implements CanDeactivate<EditServerComponent>

You will see that this time, the "canDeactivate()" method has different parameters than the "canActivate()" method.

    canDeactivate(
        component: unknown,
        currentRoute: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
        currentState: RouterStateSnapshot,
        nextState?: RouterStateSnapshot): Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean {}

So, while the return types are still the same, there are two extra parameters that this method has.

First is the "component" parameter which has an "unknown" type because Angular does not know for what component we will use this guard. Since here, we are using it for the Edit Server component, we can give the class name of Edit Server Component as the type of "component" parameter.

    canDeactivate(
        component: EditServerComponent,
        currentRoute: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
        currentState: RouterStateSnapshot,
        nextState?: RouterStateSnapshot): Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean {}

So, this will let us access the properties and methods inside the editServerComponent.

You might've understood now why we created a method named "onExit" inside edit server component. That's because only on the basis of this method, we will allow or disallow navigation to other page.

The other new parameter that canDeactivate method accepts is named "nextState" which, as you can see above, has a question mark after it "?". It means this is an optional parameter.

Now comes the main part. How to use canDeactivate route guard?

So, let's say we want to show a "confirm" dialog to the user when the user tries to navigate away from the Edit Servers page. But, we show it only if the user has not yet saved the changes. That is, if "changedSaved" is false and there are some edits made in input fields. All this logic is present in the "onExit()" method of EditServerComponent. But so far, this method is not being called anywhere.

Now, we will call that method inside the "canDeactivate()" method of the CanDeactivate route guard file.

And that's pretty simple. Since we already have access to the "component" which is of type "EditServerComponent", we can easily access the "onExit()" method in it in our "canDeactivate()" method.


    canDeactivate(
        component: EditServerComponent,
        currentRoute: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
        currentState: RouterStateSnapshot,
        nextState?: RouterStateSnapshot): Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean {

        // Call the onExit() method of the component
        return component.onExit();
    }

And the last step is to add this "canDeactivate" Route Guard file in the Routes array.

    {path: ':id/edit', component: EditServerComponent, canDeactivate: [CandeactivateGuard]}

Again, the "canDeactivate" property takes an array as input which means there can be multiple canDeactivate guards for a single route and if one of them fails, the navigation is not done and user stays in the current page only.


# CREATING A GENERAL PURPOSE CANDEACTIVATE ROUTE GUARD

While we have a canDeactivate route guard now, it is tightly coupled to a single component. 

Imagine if we want the same functionality on some other page. In that case, we will have to create a new Route Guard file in that component and copy paste the same logic in that file.

As our application grows, we will have to implement the canDeactivate guard in more places. So, it is not a good approach to keep creating new files for each component.

What if, just like canActivate, we can create a general canDeactivate route guard that we can then apply to as many component as we want?

But for that, we have to think of a general approach that every component which wants to use that same canDeactivate route guard should follow.

One thing that we definitely want is that every component that wants to use the canDeactivate route guard, should have a method named "onExit()". Since that's the method we are calling inside the canDeactivate() method of our route guard file.

And the best way to force a component to implement this "onExit()" method is..... as you might have guessed.... an INTERFACE.

Just like how implementing "CanActivate" and "CanDeactivate" interfaces forces us to implement the "canActivate()" and "canDeactivate()" methods, we can create our own interface which will force the components to implement the "canExit()" method if they implement this interface.

Let's say that we create an interface named "CanDeactivateComponent". And all that this interface has is a method named "canExit". Since it will be an Interface that any component can implement, we will create it in the root of our application.


        import { Observable } from "rxjs";

        export interface CanDeactivateComponent {
            onExit: () => Observable<boolean> | Promise<boolean> | boolean;
        }

And now, let's make EditServerComponent implement this interface.

        export class EditServerComponent implements OnInit, CanDeactivateComponent {}

Since it already has the "onExit()" method, it does not give any error. But, if we remove that method, now it will give an error saying -

        Property 'onExit' is missing in type 'EditServerComponent' but required in type 'CanDeactivateComponent'.

So, it means, we are now forcing a component to implement "onExit()" method when that component implements CanDeactivateComponent interface.

The next step is now to create a canDeactivate route guard file, this time in the Root of our application, just like how we created "Auth Guard" file in previous sections.

    ng g g can-deactivate

And this time, in place of "unknown" we will not give any component's class name. We will give the name of the Interface that we just created. So now, everything is coming together, right?

Now, this Route Guard will work for every component that implements the "CanDeactivateComponent" Interface. And if a component implements this interface, then that component also has to implement "onExit()" method.

    export class CanDeactivateGuard implements CanDeactivate<CanDeactivateComponent> {
        canDeactivate(
            component: CanDeactivateComponent,
            currentRoute: ActivatedRouteSnapshot,
            currentState: RouterStateSnapshot,
            nextState?: RouterStateSnapshot): Observable<boolean | UrlTree> | Promise<boolean | UrlTree> | boolean | UrlTree {
                
            return component.onExit ? component.onExit() : true;
        }    
    }

And now, we have successfully created a general purpose canDeactivate Route guard which will work for any component that implements the "CanDeactivateComponent" interface. So now, we can also remove the canDeactivate guard file from the edit server component folder.

And finally, in the Routes array, update the import to now point to this new Can Deactivate Guard we created in the root folder.
