In the previous section, we learned how to pass "static" data to a Route using the "data" property of a Route object. 

But, there are some scenarios when we have to pass a dynamic data to a Route.

Let's take a scenario. 

Suppose, that on going to /servers route, we load the "ServersComponent" which is nothing but a list of servers. Now, suppose this list is something we get from an api call that we make to the backend.

Usually, we do this fetching inside the ngOnInit of a component.

This means, when the user goes to /servers, he will not see the list of servers immediately and may see just a blank page until the servers are not fetched from the api call.

Ofcourse we can add a loading spinner to let the user know that we are fetching some data.

But, is there a way to load the component with the data?

Yes. That can be done using a Route Guard named "resolve". This Route Guard has one main task - Fetch the data before navigating to the route. So that as soon as the component is rendered, the data is also available at the same time.

And if the data cannot be fetched, the navigation won't even continue. So it also saves us from any issues if the fetching of data fails.

Here is a simple way to explain what resolve guard does - 

    Rather than loading the component first and then loading the data required, resolve says, hey, let the required data be loaded first, and then once thats done, move ahead with completing the route for that component. 

# HOW TO DEFINE A RESOLVER THAT FETCHES DATA

A resolver in Angular is a class with a method that acts as a data provider for the page’s initialization and makes the router wait for the data to be resolved before the route is finally activated.

For the Resolve Route Guard to work, we need to define a "Resolver" which is nothing but a service in which the Service class implements the "Resolve" interface of Angular Router.

    export class ServerResolver implements Resolve<Server>{}

The "Resolve" interface expects a type to be provided and this type is the type of data that the resolver function will fetch.

And then, since we are implementing this interface, it expects us to also implement a method named "resolve()".

The parameters are the same as for canActivate method -> ActivatedRouteSnapshot and RouterStateSnapshot.

    resolve(route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot): Server | Observable<Server> | Promise<Server> {}

And as we can see, this method will return either a "Server" or an Observable or a Promise.

Now, we want to fetch the server by making use of the service that might make a call to the backend. So, let's do that - 

    resolve(route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot): Server | Observable<Server> | Promise<Server> {
        return this.serversService.getServer(+route.params.id);
    }

Since we already have the activated route access, we can easily get the id of the server that we are trying to load and then call the service that gives us the data.

# HOW TO USE A RESOLVER?

Finally, like all other Route Guards, the final step is to add the Resolver in the Routing module.

But, the way we add resolver to a Route is different than canActivate or canDeactivate.

We do not pass an array but we pass an object to the "resolve" property.

    {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent, title: "Server Details", resolve: {server: ServerResolver}},

So, this object has a "key" that is the name that we want for the variable that will get hold of the data which the ServerResolver returns. 

And now, in our component itself, we can get this "server" data using the "data" property in the same way we accessed static data in previous section. Note that the name "server" is the same name that we gave as the "key" when we added this resolver in the routing file.

    ngOnInit() {

        this.route.data.subscribe(data => {
        this.server = data.server;
        })
    }

And well, that's how we use a resolve guard to fetch the data such that when component gets loaded, the data also gets loaded with it.


# IMPORTANT NOTE

If we have multiple route guards on a route and also a resolver, then the resolver will run after all the guards are done executing.

Also, if the resolver function returns "null" or there is an "error" thrown, the navigation to that route is cancelled.

And finally, there can be multiple resolvers for a single route.

# RESOLVER DEPRECATED IN ANGULAR 15

Well, a better way to say it is that "Class-based" Resolvers are deprecated in Angular 15 and above.

So, there is an updated way to work with Resolvers in Angular now. 

The thing is, we no longer create a "Service" and implement the "Resolve" interface and then implement the "resolve" method.

Instead, we just need to create a function that is of type "ResolveFn"

So, instead of "Class-based" Resolver, we now need to create a "Function-based" Resolver. The benefit is that you no longer have to worry about adding it to the providers array or to use "providedIn" property and @Injectable decoartor, which is the case with the "Services".

So, to convert our "Server Resolver Service" into a "Resolver Function", we just create a new file, let's name is "Server-Resolver.ts".

And inside it, we can say - 

    export const serverResolver : ResolveFn<Server> = (route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot, serversService: ServersService = inject(ServersService)) : Server | Observable<Server> | Promise<Server> => {
        return serversService.getServer(+route.params.id);
    }

Note that since it is not a class, we cannot use a constructor and then inject the ServersService using that. Instead, we have to use the "inject" method that Angular provides.

And well, the remaining code in app routing module remains unchanged.