The "CanMatch" guard was introduced in Angular 14 and this is used to determine whether a route can be matched before the router attempts to load the route's configuration. It is particularly useful for scenarios where you want to conditionally load a route based on specific criteria, such as user permissions, feature flags, or application state.

This helps in optimizing lazy loading because the route won't even be loaded if it’s not supposed to match. So, if you're doing lazy loading and want to prevent the module from being loaded at all if certain conditions are not met, go with 'canMatch'.

It might sound similar to 'CanActivate' guard but the difference is that 'CanActivate' is used to determine whether a route can be 'activated' after it has been 'matched', while 'CanMatch' is used to determine whether a route can be 'matched' in the first place.

In newer Angular versions, we create a 'CanMatch' guard by creating a function of type 'CanMatchFn'.

    export const canMatchGuard: CanMatchFn = (route, segments) => {
        return true;
    };

The simplest way to define this function is to return a boolean value. If the function returns true, the route can be matched; if it returns false, the route cannot be matched.

Let's say we have this route configuration - 

    { path: 'dashboard', component: AdminDashboardComponent },
    { path: 'dashboard', component: UserDashboardComponent }

So here, we have two routes with the same path but different components. In this case, we can use the 'CanMatch' guard to determine which component should be loaded based on some condition.

Let's say that we have some Auth Service which has a method called 'isAdmin()' that returns true if the user is an admin and false otherwise. We can use this method in our 'CanMatch' guard to determine which component should be loaded.

So, we can create two functions one for the case when user is an admin and the other for the case when user is not an admin. That is, we will have two CanMatch functions -

    export const AdminCanMatchGuard: CanMatchFn = (route, segments) => {
        const authService = inject(AuthService);
        return authService.isAdmin();
    };

    export const NonAdminCanMatchGuard: CanMatchFn = (route, segments) => {
        const authService = inject(AuthService);
        return !authService.isAdmin();
    };

And now, we can update the route configuration like this -

    { path: 'dashboard', canMatch: [AdminCanMatchGuard], component: AdminDashboardComponent },
    { path: 'dashboard', canMatch: [NonAdminCanMatchGuard],component: UserDashboardComponent }

So, the first route will be matched if the user is an admin and the second route will be matched if the user is not an admin.

Maybe we want to redirect the user to some "Unauthorized" page if the canMatch function does not return true. We can do that by returning a new "RedirectCommand" from the 'CanMatch' guard.
So, we can update the 'AdminCanMatchGuard' function like this -

    export const AdminCanMatchGuard: CanMatchFn = (route, segments) => {
        const router = inject(Router);
        const authService = inject(AuthService);
        
        if (authService.isAdmin()) {
            return true;
        }
        return new RedirectCommand(router.parseUrl('/unauthorized'));
    };
