Angular apps are SPAs or Single Page Applications.

As the name says, there is just one Single Page that gets loaded on the browser and this is the "index.html" page that we have in our Angular app.

All that changes is the content on the page and Angular takes care of that.

And this is also the reason why when we move from one route to another, we don't reload the page so we don't see the Browser "reload" icon moving. Because if we have to reload on every single route, then it simply defeats the purpose of a Single Page Application. 

The reload of a page on every request is something that happens in a Multi Page Application since every page has a different html file to be displayed on the browser.

In Angular, if you open the "index.html" file, you will see that it just has one tag in the body - 

    <app-root></app-root>

And this app-root is nothing but the selector of the "App Component". 

And that's why this Root Component is the component that is the first to get loaded on the browser. All of this happens behind the scenes, thanks to Angular.

# THE ISSUE WITH AN ACTUAL SERVER

So far, we have been using our application on localhost that is on our own local machine. So, we don't see any issues while going to different pages. That's because this local development sever has a special configuration that a real server doesn't already have.

But, when we host our application on a real server, then, when we go to any route, then the browser will send the request first to the Server. And only when some response is received, then Angular starts working. That's the way how the web works. Every route is handled first by the server.

But now the issue is, all our routes are configured on the Angular side, that is on front-end. So, if browser sends a request to the server for a route like /servers, then obviously server will throw a 404 error and browser will show a 404 page.

# HOW TO SOLVE THIS ISSUE?

The way to solve this issue is to redirect all the requests to the server to the "index.html" page.

It means that when you ask from http://www.example.com/servers, the Web server must redirect it to index.html and return the request. Then in the Front-end Angular will read the URL and dynamically load the ServersComponent.

# BUT WHAT ABOUT OLDER BROWSERS?

This technique of redirecting all requests to the index.html might not work on the older browsers that do not support HTML 5. For those, we can use something called "Hash-style" Routing.

So, in this type, instead of going to let's say www.example.com/servers, we will go to www.example.com/#/servers

So, you can see that there is this hash symbol "#" between the root route and the /servers route. And because there is this hash symbol, this "#/servers" part is now a fragment which means it is an optional thing so the actual route that the server will parse is just "www.example.com" and since at this route we have index.html page, it will render it. 

Then, Angular will kick in and it will see that the url has a fragment "#/servers". And it understands that okay we are using the "Hash-style" routing. So, it will check in Routes file whether we have a route configured as "/servers". If yes, it will load the correct component.

# HOW TO USE HASH-STYLE ROUTING IN ANGULAR?

There is one simple step we need to perform to enable this hash style routing in Angular.

In the angular's routing file, we are using the forRoot() method. This method takes a second argument which is an object with some properties. And one such property is "useHash" which is by default "false"

If we turn it to "true", then we will start using hash-style routing.

    @NgModule({
        imports: [RouterModule.forRoot(routes, {useHash: true})],
        exports: [RouterModule]
    })

And that's how we enable hash-style routing in Angular. In this way, we do not have to worry about redirecting all the routes to index.html page.

But ofcourse this approach is not used widely because the URLs don't look that great using this approach. So, the other approach that we can use is to redirect the requests to index.html page.

# PathLocationStrategy vs HashLocationStrategy

The approach in which we redirect all the paths to the "index.html" page is the "PathLocationStrategy". Here are the Pros and Cons of this strategy - 

    Pros:

    - Produces a clear URL like http://example.com/foo
    - Supports Server-Side Rendering (Server-side Rendering is a technique that renders critical pages on the server that can greatly improve perceived responsiveness when the app first loads)

    Cons:

    - Older browser does not support
    - Server Support needed for this to work

The approach in which we set the "useHash" to "true" and then use the hash-style routing is called the "HashLocationStrategy". Here are the pros and cons of this strategy - 

    Pros:

    - Supported by all browsers
    
    Cons:

    - Produces a URL like http://example.com/#foo
     - Will not Support Server-Side Rendering


# WHICH LOCATION STRATEGY TO USE?

It is not difficult to see that the PathLocationStrategy is the better option because -

    - It produces clean and SEO Friendly URLs that are easier for users to understand and remember.
    - You can take advantage of the server-side rendering, which will make our application load faster, by rendering the pages in the server first before delivering them the client

The only reason to use the HashLocationStrategy would be to support very old browsers that don't support HTML5 which is not normal these days.