We are not going to build an entire backend from scratch so instead, we can use Google Firebase which is a "Backend As a Service" platform. 

So, it provides everything that we would need in backend like database, authentication, hosting and so on.

So, we can create a new Realtime Database on Firebase and then it will give us a URL which we can then use to send HTTP requests.

Now, to use the HTTPClient Service in Angular, we have to import a new module in app.module.ts file - HTTPClientModule.

    import { HttpClientModule } from '@angular/common/http';
    imports: [BrowserModule, FormsModule, HttpClientModule]

And now, we can inject the "HTTPClient" Service in whatever component we want to make HTTP Calls.

    import { HttpClient } from '@angular/common/http';
    constructor(private http: HttpClient) {}

So, let's say that when we click on the submit button, we want to send a new "POST" request to the Firebase Database with the "Title" and "Content" as the data so that it is then saved to the Database.

So, we can now use this HttpClient service as - 

    onCreatePost(postData: { title: string; content: string }) {
        // Send Http request
        this.http.post(this.url + 'posts.json', postData);
    }

In Firebase, on our main Database URL, we don't directly send the data but we can add another URL segment after it for example "posts.json". Now, whatever data we will send to this final URL, that will be stored on Firebase database in a folder named "posts". This ".json" is just something Firebase required you to add to such a URL.

Since it is a post call, we also have to send the "body" which is the data that we want to be stored on the database. Note that when we make a POST request, we usually send "JSON" data. But in our Angular app, we are simply passing the Javascript Object. Under the hood, the HTTPClient takes care of converting the Object to JSON and then make the call.

So, that is sent as the second argument of the post() method.

And so now, when we click the submit button, a "POST "call should be made, right?

Well, no. That's because the post() method actually returns an "Observable". This means, it is not executed as soon as you call it. But, only when you subscribe to it, it will make the actual call and give you the response.

    onCreatePost(postData: { title: string; content: string }) {
        // Send Http request
        this.http.post(this.url + 'posts.json', postData).subscribe({
        next: data => {
            console.log("Post Request Successful", data)
        }
        })
    }

And now, since we are subscribing, it will make the post call which you can also see in the Network tab in the browser. Once it is successful, the post will be saved under the "posts" folder on our RealTime Database in Firebase.

    And you can even go to this URL -> <your-realtime-db-url>/posts.json 

This will show you all the posts currently saved in this folder in a JSON format.

This means, if we want to Fetch the posts, we now just need to make a "GET" request to this endpoint.

# MAKING A GET REQUEST

Now that we know how to make a "POST" request, making a "GET" request is very simple.

    private fetchPosts() {
        this.http.get(this.url).subscribe({
        next: data => {
            console.log("Posts", data)
        }
        })
    }

So, on the same URL, we can now make a "GET" request. Just note that since this is a "GET" request, we just need to pass the URL. We don't pass any second argument for the body.

So now, it should return all the data that is present in the "posts" folder on the Realtime Database in Firebase.

We created a private method because we can now call it in different places in our component. For example, in ngOnInit, in a fetch button click handler etc.
