So, we are now making GET and POST requests.

One issue, however is that the data that we get back, might not have same format as what we want. For example, it is something like - 

    {
        "-Ni9GuV9KIztxgBXFjXK": {
            "content": "Some Content",
            "title": "New Post"
        }
    }       

So, we will get an Object, which has a "key" as the string and value as another Object which has the data related to a post. 

But, what if we want to instead get an Array of all the Post Objects? Something like this - 

    [
        {
            "content": "Some Content 1",
            "title": "New Post 1"
        },
        {
            "content": "Some Content 2",
            "title": "New Post 2"
        }
    ]

And since we know that the HTTPClient Service methods return Observables, we can now use RxJS Operators to transform the data before we subscribe to it.

So basically, we want to take the response, which is of type "Object", and transform it into an "Array". And to do that, we can use the map() operator which is used to do some operation on the response and then return a new observable which emits that new transformed data.

    this.http.get(this.url)
        .pipe(map((response: any) =>{
            let list = []
            for(const key in response) {
                list.push({...response[key], id: key})
            }
            return list
        })).subscribe(...)

So, in the "map" operator, we take the value emitted by the original Observable, then convert it from an Object to an Array of posts (with id), and then return that Array as a new Observable to which we then subscribe. Generally, all this transformation logic should reside in a service file instead of in the component.ts file.