One of the reasons to use Typescript instead of Javascript in Angular is that Typescript is a Strongly Typed language so we should try to use types wherever required.

Types simply mean to let Typescript know what type of data some variable has. 

    For example, let s : string = "abc"

Here, since we are letting TypeScript know that "s" can only have "string" values, we cannot later do "s = 10" because "s" cannot hold numbers. 

In our current project, we are making an HTTP Call to fetch the posts and when we get the data, since we are not specifying the type, the "data" is of type "any". But, we can let TypeScript know what type of data we get.

Now, in Typescript, when we don't know all the names of a type's properties ahead of time, we can use a special type in Typescript 

    {[key: string]: string}

Here, it means that the "key" is of type "string" and the value is also of type "string", even though we don't know what exact key names there will be.

Now, in our case, we know that the data that we get when we make a get request has a "key" of type "string" and then its value is an Object with Post title and Post Content. 

So, we can create an Interface "Post" to define the structure of a Post Object.

    export interface Post {
        title: string;
        content: string;
        id ?: string;
    }

So, we say that each Post object should have a title and content but id is optional.

Another thing about the HTTPClient methods is that they are generic methods. This means, we can specify what type of Response we will get from the method.

    this.http.get<{[key: string]: Post}>(this.url)

So, here, we use angle brackets <> and inside them, we specify the type of response that we will get from this method.

So here, we are saying that we will get an object with a "key" of type "string" and the value will be an object of type "Post", meaning that it will definitely have "title" and "content" but "id" is optional.

And so, our whole method now looks like -

    this.http.get<{[key: string]: Post}>(this.url)
        .pipe(map((response) =>{
        let list: Post[] = []
        for(const key in response) {
            list.push({...response[key], id: key})
        }
        return list
        }))
        .subscribe({
        next: (data) => {
            console.log("Data is ", data)
        }
        })

So you can see that inside "map" as well, we define the type of "list" as "Post[]" which means it is an array of "Post" objects, which it indeed is.

And we can do the same thing in "Post" as well. We can tell what type of data we are getting back from the server.

Since in post call, the response just has an object with "name" property set to a string value, we can say -

    onCreatePost(postData: Post) {
        // Send Http request
        this.http.post<{name: string}>(this.url, postData).subscribe({
        next: data => {
            console.log("Post Request Successful", data);
        }
        })
    }