Ofcourse it is not always possible that whatever HTTP request we make is a success. Many times, our request will fail for some reasons. 

Sometimes it is due to our own configuration, for example if the URL is not correct. And sometimes, it is due to the backend itself, if maybe the server is down.

And so, we should also handle those scenarios in our code. Fortunately, HTTPClient not only gives us the data on a successful request, but also an "Error" object in case the request fails for some reason.

Let's say the server is down so we cannot "fetch" the posts or make a "GET" request. 

In that case, the user will just see the Loading text or a spinner for infinite time because that spinner only goes away when we get  the data but here, we are getting an error.

So, how can we handle errors?

We know that all the request methods on HTTPClient service return an observable. And we also know that when we subscribe to an observable, we can not only access the "data" but also "error" and "complete" states. 

And that's exactly what we can do here.

We can access the "error" state of the Observable so that when an error gets thrown, whatever is inside this "error" block is than used.

    private fetchPosts() {
        this.isFetching = true;
        this.postsService.fetchPosts()
        .subscribe({
        next: (posts) => {
            this.loadedPosts = posts;
            this.isFetching = false;
        },
        error: e => {
            this.isFetching = false;
        }
        })
    }

So, here, we can see that in error block, for now, we just switched the flag for the Loading text as false. It means, it will no longer keep showing the loading text or a spinner when there is an error.

But we can do more. 

The user does not know why "Loading..." stopped showing and there are no posts shown. So, we can show an error message to the user.

So, we can add a new property in our component that will store the error message.

    error: e => {
            this.error = e.message;
            this.isFetching = false;
        }


And now, we can show it in the HTML when there is an error - 
    
    <div class="alert alert-danger" *ngIf="error">
        <h3>An Error Occured!</h3>
        <p>{{error}}</p>
    </div>

Now, it is not necessary that whatever error message we get in this "e" object that we get from the server is useful to the user. Sometimes, the user may not understand what the issue is if we simply show the same error as what we get from server.

So, we can also manually set the Error text to be some generic message.

    error: e => {
        this.error = "Something went wrong while fetching your posts. Please try again!"
        this.isFetching = false;
    }

Note that this "e" object is of type "HTTPErrorResponse" and if you console.log it, you will find that it has a lot of information like what is the "status", what is the "url" , whta is the "message" and even another "error" object inside it which might have a more generic error message (depends on the API).