Another way to handle Errors is using "Subjects".

Because what if our service file has all the logic to make an HTTP Request ?

In case of our FetchPosts logic, we are not subscribing in service file but rather we are returning an observable to which we then subscribe in component.

But, what if the logic was in service and we were subscribing there only?

To understand it, let's move all our POST call logic when we create a new post to the service so that we subscribe in service file itself.

So, inside the posts.service.ts, we will have -

    // Create a new Post
    createPost(post : Post) {
        this.http.post<{name: string}>(this.url, post).subscribe({
        next: data => {
            console.log("Post Created", data)
        }
        });;
    }

So, suppose an error occurs in this case. How can we then react to that error in our component, now that the code is in the service file?

And here, we can make use of the "Subject".

So, we can create a new Subject in the service file and then, we can say -

    // Subject
    error = new Subject<string>();

    // Create a new Post
    createPost(post : Post) {
        this.http.post<{name: string}>(this.url, post).subscribe({
        next: data => {
            console.log("Post Created", data)
        },
        error: e => {
            this.error.next("Couldn't Create a new Post. Please Try Again.");
        }
        });;
    }

And so now, in the component, we can subscribe to this Subject so that whenever we have an error, we do something.

    ngOnInit() {
        this.postsService.error.subscribe(errorMessage => this.error = errorMessage);
    }

And as always, don't forget to unsubscribe.