There are a lot of ways to handle Errors and one way is using a special operator from RxJS named "catchError".

As we know, On any Observable, we can use the "map" operator to take the data that the observable emits and then maybe transform that data into something else and return a new Observable.

Similarly, on any observable, we can use the "catchError" operator to take the "error" that the observable emits and then do something with it.

For example, maybe, we just want to log the error message somewhere when observable throws an error. Now, ofcourse we can do that when we subscribe to that Observable in component.ts file.

But if the same observable is being subscribed to in multiple components, we will be duplicating the code to log the error to some file.

So instead, we can do that at one single place and that's where the actual observable is returned, that is, the service.

So for example, in "fetchPosts" method in our service file where we make a "get" request, we can add the "catchError" method inside pipe().

    fetchPosts(){
        return this.http.get<{[key: string]: Post}>(this.url)
        .pipe(map((response) =>{
        let list: Post[] = []
        for(const key in response) {
            list.push({...response[key], id: key})
        }
        return list
        }),
        catchError(error => {
        // Do something.. Maybe log the error somewhere
        return throwError(error);
        })
        );
    }

So now, when an error is emitted, we can log that to the server and then just use another method that RxJs provides named "throwError" to then throw the same or even a customized error for the subscribers.

Note that "catchError" needs to "return" an Observable. And so, that's why we are doing "return throwError(error)" because in the end, "throwError" also returns an Observable only.

If you hover over "throwError", you can see that IDE will say

"Creates an Observable that emits no items to the Observer and immediately emits an error notification. Just emits 'error', and nothing else.". 

So that's the only job of this "throwError" method.

