So, what even are "Headers" to begin with?

The HTTP headers are used to pass additional information between the clients and the server.

So, there are "response headers" which the server sends to the client, and then there are "request headers" which the client sends to the server.

For example, in "Request Headers" we can have more information about the resourse to fetch or some information about who is asking for the resource (Authentication).

The "Response Headers" can have things like the location or the information about the sever that provides the response.

If you see the network tab in the browser whenever an HTTP request is made, you can see these headers which are added by default by the HTTPClient.

# REQUEST HEADERS - EXAMPLE

For example, when we make a "GET" request to fetch the posts, in the "Headers" tab of that request, you can see the "Request Headers". Something like - 

    Accept: application/json, text/plain, */*
    Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
    Accept-Language: en-US,en;q=0.9
    Connection: keep-alive
    Host: angular-http-intro-c936e-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com
    Origin: http://localhost:4200
    Referer: http://localhost:4200/
    .... and so on....

So, a Request Header is defined as a key value pair separated by a colon (:).

For example, "Accept" specifies the media types that the client is willing to accept from the server. Here, we are saying that we are willing to accept a "json" value or maybe a plain text response as well. "*/*" indicates that client can accept all media types.

The "Connection" HTTP Header helps in sending or receiving multiple HTTP requests and responses using a single TCP connection. So, here "keep-alive" means client wishes to maintain the connection open or active. It can also has a value as "close" which means the client wishes the terminate the connection immediately after the response has been received.

Then we have "Host" request header which specifies the host and the port number of the server to which the request is being sent. So here, we are sending the request to our firebase realtime database with the URL as "angular-http-intro-c936e-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com".

The "Origin" request header indicates the origin that caused this request.

The "Referer" HTTP request header contains the absolute or partial address from which a resource has been requested.

# RESPONSE HEADERS - EXAMPLE

Talking about the "Respones Headers", we again have different headers. In our get request, we can see something like this - 

    Access-Control-Allow-Origin: http://localhost:4200
    Cache-Control: no-cache
    Connection: keep-alive
    Content-Length: 217
    Content-Type: application/json; charset=utf-8
    Date: Fri, 03 Nov 2023 13:27:42 GMT
    Server: nginx
    Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31556926;includeSubDomains;preload

The "Access-Control-Allow-Origin" response header indicates whether the response can be shared with requesting code from the given origin. It can have values like "null" or the URL or * which indicates any origin can access th resource.

The Cache-Control HTTP header field holds directives (instructions) — in both requests and responses — that control caching in browsers and shared caches (e.g. Proxies, CDNs).

Then we have the same "Connection" header which we saw in Request Headers list as well.

The "Content-Length" header indicates the size of the body, in bytes.

The "Content-Type" header is used to indicate the original media type of the resource before any encoding is applied.

And So on....

You can read about all the different Headers and why they are used at this page - https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers.