The Headers are not the only thing that we can pass to an HTTP request. An API endpoint might also accept some query parameters to maybe let us fetch some specific type of data.

For example, "Firebase" allows us to pass a query parameter named "print" which, if set to "pretty", return the data in a human-readable format.

So basically, instead of sending request to something like "angular-http-intro-c936e-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com/posts.json", 

we want to send a request to the URL 

"angular-http-intro-c936e-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com/posts.json?print-pretty"

And that's pretty simple to pass in an HTTP Request in Angular.

The object in which we passed Headers, also has a property named "params" to which we can pass Query Parameters. Now, the way in which we pass those parameters is a bit different than Headers.

    return this.http.get<{[key: string]: Post}>(this.url, {
        headers: new HttpHeaders({
            "Some-Header": "Some Value"
        }),
        params: new HttpParams().set('print', 'pretty')
    })

So, the value is an object of type "HttpParams()" on which we use a method named "set()" which takes the param name as the first argument and the param value as the second argument.

And we are not limited to just one query parameter. We can append multiple set() methods together. For example, we can say -

    params: new HttpParams().set('print', 'pretty').set("blabla", "blabla")

Now, since query parameters in the end are just going to be attached to the URL, we can also add them in the URL itself instead of adding a new "params" property and so on. But, they are very useful when we want to pass multiple query parameters with dynamic values and we don't want the URL to look messy in the code.