So far, whenever we make an HTTP Request, we are always getting the actual Response "Data" from the server but sometimes, we also want to know other things like what was the "status code" of the response.

Actually, Angular's HTTPClient by default automatically parses the response and just gives us the data. But, we can tell Angular not to do that and just give us the full response instead.

Again, we can do that in the object that we pass to a request method as the last argument. And the property we are going to use this time is "observe".

By default, this property is set to "body" which means out of the whole response, extract the body and then give that as the response. But, we can set it to "response" if we want to get access to the whole Response which not only has body but some other data as well.

So, we can do 

    this.http.post<{name: string}>(this.url, post, {
        observe: 'response'
    })

And now, when we subscribe to it, the response that we get not only has the "body" but also some other information about the response such as the "Headers", "status code", "status text", "url" and so on.

And that's not the only value that "observe" can take. There is also a value that we can pass to it named "events". So, what does "events" do?

    this.http.delete(this.url, {
      observe: "events"
    })

If we console log the response that we get when we subscribe to this observable, we see something interesting.

We see that two different values are logged to the console.

One just has an object as {type: 0} and the other has the same object that we got when we set "observe" to "response". And in this second response, we have "type" as "4".

So, what is this "type"?

Well, this "type" is related to the "HttpEventType" enum that is present in Angular. 

You can check the official code here - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.2.12/packages/common/http/src/response.ts#L10-L48

You will see that the comment says 

    "Type enumeration for the different kinds of `HttpEvent`."

So, in this enum, we have properties like "Sent", "UploadProgress", "ResponseHeader", "DownloadProgress", "Response" and "User".

And all of these are the types of "events" that can happen while the response is being returned by the server.

    "Sent" means the request was sent out over the wire.
    "UploadProgress" means an upload progress event was received.
    "ResponseHeader" means the response status code and headers were received.
    "DownloadProgress" means a download progress event was received.
    "Response" refers to a full response including the body was received.
    "User" refers to a custom event from an interceptor or a backend.

So, when "type" is "0", it refers to the "Sent" event meaning the request was sent

When "type" is "4", it refers to the "Response" event meaning the response was received

So, we can, if we want, do something when these events are received.

Some Endpoints will give us the "UploadProgress" event as well which we can then use to maybe show some upload progress bar in the UI to let the user know how much data has been uploaded.

And same is the case with "DownloadProgress".

So, let's say when the request is sent, we want to console log something. And same when the response is received.

 So, we can "tap" into the Response Stream using an RxJS operator named "tap" which lets us do some action when we get the data without having to return any observable, unlike Map or catchError.

    deletePosts(){
        return this.http.delete(this.url, {
        observe: "events"
        }).pipe(
        
        tap(event => {
            if(event.type === HttpEventType.Sent) {
                console.log("Request Sent")
            }

            if(event.type === HttpEventType.Response) {
                console.log("Response Received")
            }
        }))
    }

So now, when the event type "0" is returned, we will console log "Request Sent" and when type = "4" is returned, we will console log "Response Received".

And while right now it might sound like not so useful, it is very useful when lets say we want to get the download or upload progress for files and then show that progress in the UI using a progress bar and so on.

Check this Code for example -> https://stackblitz.com/edit/angular-image-download-with-progressbar

    subscribe((event) => {
            if (event.type === HttpEventType.DownloadProgress) {
            console.log(event);
                this.percentDone = Math.round((100 * event.loaded) / event.total);
            }
            if (event.type === HttpEventType.Response) {
                this.imageSrc = this.sanitizer.bypassSecurityTrustUrl(
                URL.createObjectURL(event['body'])
            );
            }
      });

In the above code, when the get() request is sent, the "observe" property is set to "events". And so, when we get some event back, we can then check if it is "DownloadProgess" then we show a Progress Bar with how much data has been downloaded.

And when we get back the response, we just show the fetched image on the UI. If you console log the event when the event is "DownloadProgress", you can see a lot of console logs.

They are something like - 

    {type: 3, loaded: 30224, total: 5195995}

Here, "loaded" means how much data has been downloaded and "total" means what is the full size of the data.

So from these values, we can easily show a loading indicator or a progress bar to the user showing how much data has been downloaded and how much is left.