So far, we have covered a lot related to the HTTP Requests. We learned how to make simple "Get", "Post", or "Delete" requests using the HttpClient service, how to handle errors, how to pass query parameters, how to pass headers, how to set the responseType, how to observe the response and so on.

There is one important thing left to cover. And that's the "INTERCEPTORS".

To understand them, let's take one simple scenario.

We know how to set our custom headers while making HTTP Requests. Now, imagine that we want all the HTTP Requests to happen with that custom header in them.

You can say that can can go inside the code for each request and add that custom header. And it will work fine.

But, for a large application, it will be a lot of work just to add that custom header. And imagine if at any time, we want to maybe use a different header or add an extra header.

Again, we will have to go in each line of code where we have that HTTP Request and make the changes. This is not efficient.

It would be better if for all the requests that are made, we can have a single place to maybe "INTERCEPT" them and add our custom headers.

And now, you can understand what "INTERCEPTORS" are used for!

An "INTERCEPTOR" is like a middleman that takes the outgoing request and does something with it before sending it to the server.

And interceptors can also be there on server side. So, there can be interceptors that take the outgoing response, and do something on it, and then return it to the client.

# HOW TO CREATE AN INTERCEPTOR?

We can use the Angular CLI to create an Interceptor by saying - 

    ng g interceptor <name of the interceptor>

For example,

    ng g interceptor auth

This creates a file named "auth.interceptor.ts" in our project.

If you open this file, you will see a lot of thigns already imported.

For example, HttpRequest, HttpHandler, HttpEvent, HttpInterceptor are all already imported from '@angular/common/http'.

We also see that on the class, the @Injectable() is used since at the end, an Interceptor is just a service.

It is important to note that an Interceptor needs to implement the "HttpInterceptor" Interface which will force it to implement the method named "intercept".

    intercept(request: HttpRequest<unknown>, next: HttpHandler): Observable<HttpEvent<unknown>> {
        return next.handle(request);
    }

And as you might've guessed, it is this "intercept" method inside which we write what we want the interceptor to do.

So, this interceptor takes the "request" as the first argument. The second argument is of type "HttpHandler" which is basically used to "forward" the request after we are done making changes to it.

So, before the request leaves the app, we can alter it, and then forward this altered request.

The "next" object represents the next interceptor in the chain of interceptors. This means, we are not restricted to having only one interceptor in our app. We may have multiple that are called one after the other.

The final "next" in the chain is the HttpClient backend handler which sends the request to the server and gets the response back from the server.

Most interceptors call next.handle() so that the request flows through to the next interceptor and, eventually, the backend handler.

An interceptor could skip calling next.handle(), short-circuit the chain, and return its own Observable with an artificial server response. This is a common middleware pattern found in frameworks such as Express.js.

# PROVIDING THE INTERCEPTOR

As we now understand, an Interceptor is just a service that is managed by Angular's Dependency Injection system. So, like other services, we must provide the interceptor class before the app can use it.

Now, you might have noticed that in case of a normal service like our Posts service, it has 

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
    })

This means, it is available for the entire application.

But, in case of our interceptor, we just have @Injectable()

That's because there is a special way to Provide it. Inside app.module.ts, we do -

    providers: [{provide: HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, useClass: AuthInterceptor, multi: true}]

We have seen this same syntax when we learned about custom Validators in Template-Driven Forms. At that time, we did something like -

    providers: [{provide: NG_VALIDATORS, useExisting: ForbiddenNameDirective, multi: true}]

As Angular suggsts, you must provide them in the same injector or a parent of the injector that provides HttpClient. In our case, we provide the "HTTPClient" in the "root" injector since we import "HttpClientModule" in the App Module file. This means, we should provide the interceptors in this App Module file as well.

Note that we are using "multi:true" because without it, we will get an error in the console. This is useful because if we have multiple interceptors, we don't want one to override the other so both should exist together. 

Now that we have done this, the Interceptor's intercept() method automatically runs as soon as an HTTP Request is made. 

Now, for now, this intercept() method will run for each and every request. But if we want to alter the request only for specific methods, we can do that inside intercept() because we have access to the actual "request" that is being sent. So, we can access things like the "url", the "method" and so on and do things conditionaly.