So, now that we know how Interceptors work and how can we create one, let's see how can we take a request and modify it before it leaves our application and reaches the server.

First, let's simply console log the "request" argument that the intercept method gets.

We will see that it console.logs something like this - 

    {
        "url": "https://angular-http-intro-c936e-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com/posts.json",
        "body": null,
        "reportProgress": false,
        "withCredentials": false,
        "responseType": "json",
        "method": "GET",
        "headers": HttpHeaders...,
        "params": HttpParams...,
        "context": HttpContext...,
        "urlWithParams": "https://angular-http-intro-c936e-default-rtdb.firebaseio.com/posts.json?print=pretty"
    }

This is of type "HTTPRequest" and this object has all the details of the request that we are sending to the server. It has the "url" to which we are sending the request, the "body" that we are sending  (null here as it is a 'get' request), the "responseType", the "method", the "headers", the "params" and even the URL with the query parameters attached to it.

So, let's say that we want to add a new "Header" to this request. Let's call this header as "auth-header" and the value is "123".

Since we have the request object, you might think that we just do -

    intercept(request: HttpRequest<any>, next: HttpHandler): Observable<HttpEvent<any>> {

        request.headers.append("auth-header", "123");
        return next.handle(request);
    }

But, even after doing that, we will see that the request that gets sent to the server does not have this header. So, what is going on here?

Well, if you check the Angular Docs for the "HttpRequest" -> https://angular.io/api/common/http/HttpRequest

You will see that it says - 

    HttpRequest represents an outgoing request, including URL, method, headers, body, and other request configuration options.
    
    Instances should be assumed to be immutable. To modify a HttpRequest, the clone method should be used.

Focus on this statement = "Instances should be assumed to be immutable".

This means, the "request" object that is passed to intercept() method as the first argument is "immutable", meaning its values cannot be changed.

But then, how can we alter the request?

And that's where the concept of "cloning" an object comes into picture. Yes, we cannot alter the original request, but we can definitely create a new HttpRequest object, cannot we?

Now, instead of creating a new object and manually setting all the values same as the original request, we can simply clone the original request so all the properties come into this new request And while we are doing that, we can also add the extra data that we want to add or update in the interceptor.

So, if we want to add extra headers, we can simply do -

    const modifiedRequest = request.clone({
      headers: request.headers.append("auth-header", "123")
    });

So now, this modifiedRequest object has the same request that we got as first argument to intercept() method, plus an extra HTTP Header named "auth-header".

Note that we are adding this header to the existing headers. That is why we are doing "request.headers.append".

If we had done - 
    
    headers: new HttpHeaders().append("auth-header", "123")

Then it would've removed all the custom request headers we had previously added.

So, now that we have our modified request object, we can now forward it using the "next" object.

    intercept(request: HttpRequest<any>, next: HttpHandler): Observable<HttpEvent<any>> {
        
        const modifiedRequest = request.clone({
        // To the existing headers, just append a new one
        headers: request.headers.append("auth-header", "123")
        });

        return next.handle(modifiedRequest);
    }


And that's how we "modify" a request inside an Interceptor.

# ANOTHER WAY TO SET THE HEADERS IN INTERCEPTORS

Using "append" or "set" methods work but since setting Headers is a pretty common task in Interceptors, there is a better way to do it. That is using a property named "setHeaders" while we are cloning the original request. This property takes an object with key value pairs where key is the name of the header and value is its value.

This is quite useful in the cases when we have to add multiple headers in Interceptors.

    const modifiedRequest = request.clone({
        setHeaders: {
            "auth-header0": "123",
            "auth-header1": "123",
            "auth-header2": "123",
        }
        });

# WHY IS THE "REQUEST" OBJECT IMMUTABLE IN THE FIRST PLACE?

This is a pretty obvious question that comes in mind, right?

I mean, Interceptors are used to alter the requests or response. Then, why are the Requests or Responses immutable in the first place?

They are immutable for a good reason.

An app might retry a request several times before it succeeds, which means that the interceptor chain can re-process the same request multiple times. If an interceptor could modify the original request object, the re-tried operation would start from the modified request rather than the original. Immutability ensures that interceptors see the same request for each try.

Here are some nice examples of how to modify the request using Interceptors - https://angular.io/guide/http-intercept-requests-and-responses