It is quite clear by now that we are not limited to just one Interceptor. Instead, we can have multiple interceptors.

And as we saw in previous section, their order depends on the order in which they are provided in the module.ts file.

Let's create another Interceptor. We will create one named "LoggingInterceptor".

    ng g interceptor logging

For now, let's just console log things in it.

    intercept(request: HttpRequest<unknown>, next: HttpHandler): Observable<HttpEvent<unknown>> {
        console.log("Inside Logging Interceptor  - Request Sent", request)
        return next.handle(request).pipe(tap(event => {
        if(event.type == HttpEventType.Response){
            console.log("Inside Logging Interceptor - Response Received", event.body)
        }
        }));
    }

And finally, don't forget to add it to the "providers" in app.module.ts -

    providers: [{provide: HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, useClass: AuthInterceptor, multi: true},{provide: HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, useClass: LoggingInterceptor, multi: true}]

Now, keep an eye on the console log statements.

You will see that when a request is made, the console log inside "AuthInterceptor" is invoked first, and then the console log inside "LoggingInterceptor".

But, when a response is received, then the console log inside "LoggingInterceptor" is invoked first and then the console log inside "AuthInterceptor".

So, when request gets sent, the order is - 

    HTTPClient -> AuthInterceptor -> LoggingInterceptor -> HTTPBackend

And when the response is received, the order is -

    HTTPBackend -> LoggingInterceptor -> AuthInterceptor -> HTTPClient

And that's because of the order in which we have provided these two in the app.module.ts. If we change the order, then it will also change the execution order of the intercept() methods.

So now it all makes sense right?
