The first task is to create the model of our form.

What is a model? Well, in general terms, a model is a representation of data or a system.

In Signal Forms, we use the 'signal' function to create a model for our form. Let's say we have a form with 'firstName', 'lastName', 'age', 'username' and 'email' fields.

First, we can create an interface that defines the structure of our form like this -

    export interface FormData {
        firstName: string;
        lastName: string;
        age: number;
        username: string;
        email: string;
    }

Now, in our component's template class, we use the 'signal' function and pass it this interface as the value of the generic type parameter -

    formModel = signal<FormData>({
        firstName: '',
        lastName: '',
        age: 0,
        username: '',
        email: ''
    });

So, we created the signal 'formModel' which will hold the form's data. This is now our Form model which is a writable signal and this is what we use to initialize our form.

Now, we have to pass this signal to the 'form' function which is provided by ''@angular/forms/signals' package -

    loginForm = form(this.formModel);

And that's it! The 'form' function returns a new object type 'FieldTree' which represents a tree of fields in a form. If you hover over 'loginForm', you will see its type as -

    FieldTree<FormData, string | number>

A FieldTree is like a hierarchical structure of fields where each object in the model becomes a node with its own children and each primitive value becomes the terminal or leaf node. So, in our case, 'firstName', 'lastName', 'age', 'username' and 'email' are all terminal nodes because they are primitive values (string or number). The 'formModel' is the root node of the tree and it has these five terminal nodes as its children.

Any modification and updates our form model will be directly propagated and reflected by the form. This is one of the biggest changes as compared to Reactive forms because in case of Reactive forms, the form managed its own state independently and if we had to synchronize the form with any external model, that required manual value updates. That is no longer the case with Signal Forms because the form is directly connected to the model and any changes in the model will automatically update the form and vice versa.

To get the value of the form, we can simply use the 'value()' method on the 'loginForm' signal like this -

    this.loginForm().value()

And this will return an object with the keys as the form field names and the values as the current values of those fields. For example, it will return something like this -

    {
        firstName: 'John',
        lastName: 'Doe',
        age: 30,
        username: 'johndoe',
        email: 'john@test.com'
    }

You can get this same object if you read the 'formModel' signal as well. This works because the form is directly connected to the model and any changes in the form will update the model and any changes in the model will update the form. So, both 'loginForm().value()' and 'formModel()' will give you the same result.

It is worth mentioning that if you say -

    "this.loginForm"

Without any parenthesis, if you hover over 'loginForm', you wil see that its type is -

    FieldTree<FormData, string | number>

But, if you use a parenthesis like -

    "this.loginForm()"

Then, if you hover over 'loginForm()', you will see that its type is -

    FieldState<FormData, string | number>

So, remember that if you need to access the state of the form, you need to use the 'FieldState' object for that. But, if you want to access the children of the form, you need the 'FieldTree' object for that. You will understand this in the next section where we access the individual fields of the form and update their values