The next step after creating the form model is to bind the form fields to the form model.

This is also pretty simple.

We have to use the 'formField' directive in the template to bind the form fields to the form model.

And this is how we do it. Let's say we have an input element for the 'firstName'. So, we can do -

    <input type="text" placeholder="First Name" [formField]="loginForm.firstName">

Don't forget to import the 'FormField' directive in the component. Again, 'FormField' comes from '@angular/forms/signals'.

And that's it. We have successfully bound the form field to the form model. We can do the same for all the other form fields as well.

Now, if you want to access the value of any form field at any time, all you have to do is read the signal like how you read any other signal. For example, if you want to access the value of 'firstName', you can do -

    this.loginForm.firstName().value()

You might ask, why we had to call the 'value()' method to get the value of the form field. To understand this, let's print the value of 'firstName()' in the console when we submit the form -

    onSubmit(event: Event) {
        event.preventDefault();
        console.log(this.loginForm.firstName())
    }

You will see that what we actually get is not the value of the 'firstName' field but rather a new object of type 'FieldState' which has various properties that represent the state of that form field.

If you check the type of 'FieldState' in Angular, you will see that it is an interface like this -

    interface FieldState<TValue, TKey extends string | number = string | number> {
        readonly value: WritableSignal<TValue>;
        readonly disabled: Signal<boolean>;
        readonly required: Signal<boolean>;
        readonly touched: Signal<boolean>;
        readonly dirty: Signal<boolean>;
        ... AND SO ON...
    }

And in this interface, 'value' is a signal that represents the value of the form field. So, to access the value of the form field, we have to call the 'value()' method on this signal. In fact, all of the properties in this interface that represent the state of the field are signals. That's why we have to call the '()' method on them to access their values. This is how signals work in Angular.

This is how we can access the value of any form field at any time -

    this.loginForm.firstName().value();

And yes, this is as simple as it gets. We don't have to do anything else to bind the form fields to the form model. Just use the 'formField' directive and you are good to go.

This is the beauty of signal forms in newer Angular versions. They make the form handling so simple and straightforward. You don't have to worry about anything else. Just bind the form fields to the form model and you are good to go. Everything is handled by signals so the state updates are really efficient.

Just like getting fields values, we can also set their values programmatically at any time. For example, if we want to set the value of 'firstName' field to 'John', we can do -

    this.loginForm.firstName().value.set('John');

Since 'firstName().value' returns a signal, we can call the 'set()' method on it to set its value programmatically.