Alright, what about form validations?

In case of Reactive Forms, we used to add validators while creating the form controls. For example:

    this.loginForm = new FormGroup({
        firstName: new FormControl('', [Validators.required, Validators.minLength(3)]),
        lastName: new FormControl('', [Validators.required, Validators.minLength(3)])
    });

Well, we do something similar in case of Signal Forms.

If you look at the types of 'form' function, there are actually 3 ways to call this function. One we have already seen that takes the 'formModel' signal as input. But there are two more ways to call it -

    function form<TModel>(model: WritableSignal<TModel>, schemaOrOptions: SchemaOrSchemaFn<TModel> | FormOptions<TModel>): FieldTree<TModel>;

    function form<TModel>(model: WritableSignal<TModel>, schema: SchemaOrSchemaFn<TModel>, options: FormOptions<TModel>): FieldTree<TModel>;

So, the 'form' function also takes a second argument which can be a Schema Function. This is where we will add the validators for the form controls. We can add a second argument as a function which will be of type 'SchemaFn' -

    type SchemaFn<TModel, TPathKind extends PathKind = PathKind.Root> = (p: SchemaPathTree<TModel, TPathKind>) => void;

This is a function that takes an argument of type 'SchemaPathTree'. And this argument is what gives us access to all the form controls in the form. So, we can use this argument to add validators to the form controls. To add validators, we just call the appropriate validator function and pass the form field as an argument to it. The 'schema path' parameter provides paths to your fields for configuring validation rules.

The schema function runs once during form initialization. Validation rules bind to fields using the schema path parameter (such as schemaPath.email, schemaPath.username), and validation runs automatically whenever field values change.

For example, to add a 'required' validator to the 'firstName' field, we can do something like this -

    loginForm = form(this.formModel, (schemaPath) => {
        required(schemaPath.firstName);
        required(schemaPath.lastName);
        required(schemaPath.username);
        required(schemaPath.email);
    });

Here, 'required' is a function imported from ''@angular/forms/signals'. So now, we are saying that the 'firstName', 'lastName', 'username' and 'email' fields are required fields. We can also add other validators like 'minLength', 'maxLength', 'email' etc. For example, to add a 'minLength' validator to the 'firstName' field, we can do something like this -

    loginForm = form(this.formModel, (schemaPath) => {
        required(schemaPath.firstName);
        minLength(schemaPath.firstName, 3);
        required(schemaPath.lastName);
        minLength(schemaPath.lastName, 3);
        required(schemaPath.username);
        minLength(schemaPath.username, 5);
        required(schemaPath.email);
        email(schemaPath.email);
    });

This is so simple and straightforward. We just call the appropriate validator function and pass the form field as an argument to it. And that's how we can add validations to our Signal Forms.

Now, there are some built-in validator functions that include -

    required(path);                    // required field
    min(path, minValue);               // minimum numeric value
    max(path, maxValue);               // maximum numeric value  
    minLength(path, length);           // minimum length
    maxLength(path, length);           // maximum length
    pattern(path, regex);              // regex pattern
    email(path);                       // email format   

You might ask, what if we also want to add custom error functions on each validation error? Well, we can pass another argument to the validator function which will be the error message to be shown when the validation fails.

Well, you can pass another argument to these validator function which are the 'options'. This 'options' argument is an object which lets you pass a custom 'message' property which is the message you want to show if this validation fails.

    loginForm = form(this.formModel, (schemaPath) => {
        required(schemaPath.firstName, { message: 'First name is required' });
        minLength(schemaPath.firstName, 3, { message: 'First name must be at least 3 characters' });
        required(schemaPath.lastName, { message: 'Last name is required' });
        minLength(schemaPath.lastName, 3, { message: 'Last name must be at least 3 characters' });
        required(schemaPath.username, { message: 'Username is required' });
        minLength(schemaPath.username, 5, { message: 'Username must be at least 5 characters' });
        required(schemaPath.email, { message: 'Email is required' });
        email(schemaPath.email, { message: 'Email must be a valid email address' });
    });

So, how do we show these validation messages and do some stuff with the state of the field? Well, as you might have guessed, we do this using signals.

Remember that to access any 'FieldState', we have to say -

    this.loginForm.firstName()

And on this 'FieldState', we have access to things like 'valid', 'touched', 'invalid' etc. signals which we can use. In fact, on the 'FieldState', you also have this signal -

    readonly errors: Signal<ValidationError.WithFieldTree[]>;

So, we can actually get the list of validation errors on a field using this 'errors' signal. So, we can use this 'errors' signal to show the validation messages in the template. For example, to show the validation messages for the 'firstName' field, we can do something like this in the template -

    @if(loginForm.firstName().touched() && loginForm.firstName().invalid()) {
        @for(error of loginForm.firstName().errors(); track error.kind) {
          <p class="text-red-500 text-xs italic">{{ error.message }}</p>
        }
    }

Notice that here, we are using the new @if and @for syntax which is preferred over the old NgIf and NgFor directives in the newer Angular versions.

Here, we first check if the 'firstName' field is touched and invalid. If it is, then we loop through the list of errors using the 'errors' signal and show the error message for each error. The 'error.kind' is a unique identifier for each error which we can use as a tracking key in the loop. Remember that in @for, it is mandatory to provide a tracking key using the 'track' keyword. So, we can use 'error.kind' as the tracking key since it is unique for each error. 'kind' simply returns the name of the validation rule that failed as a string. For example, 'required', 'minLength', 'email' etc.

Another thing worth mentioning is that if we have multiple validation rules, they all run for a field. For example, If the email field is empty, only the 'required(') error appears. If the user types "a@b", both 'email()' and 'minLength()' errors appear (if we have validation rules). All validation rules run - validation doesn't stop after the first failure.

We can also add another argument to the options object to control when the validation actually runs. For example, what if we want to only validate the 'lastName' if the user has entered something in the 'firstName' field? We can do that using the 'when' property in the options object. The 'when' property is a function that returns a boolean value. The validation will only run if this function returns true. For example -

    required(schemaPath.lastName, { 
      message: 'Last name is required',
      when: ({valueOf}) => valueOf(schemaPath.firstName).length > 0
    });

Here, we are saying that the 'lastName' field is required only when the 'firstName' field has some value in it. So, if the user has not entered anything in the 'firstName' field, then the validation for the 'lastName' field will not run and no error message will be shown for the 'lastName' field. Note that here, 'valueOf' gets the value of the field represented by the given path. In our case, we want to get the value of 'firstName' that's why we give the path of firstName as the argument. Since 'firstName' is of type string, 'valueOf' will return a 'string' when called with 'schemaPath.firstName'. That's the magic of TypeScript.

And well, that's it!

So, there are four steps in which validation works in Signal Forms -

    1. Define validation rules in schema - Bind validation rules to fields in the schema function
    2. Automatic execution - Validation rules run when field values change
    3. Error propagation - Validation errors are exposed through field state signals
    4. Reactive updates - UI automatically updates when validation state changes

Remember that hidden and disabled fields don't run validation - their validation rules are skipped until the field becomes interactive again.

Now, this is how we work with the build-in validators but of course there are times when we want to create our own custom validators. We can also do that. In the next section, we will see how to create custom validators in Signal Forms.