So, how do we write custom validators in Signal Forms?

Well, it is pretty simple. We can use the 'validate' function and pass it the logic based on which that custom validation will happen. This is the type of 'validate' function -

    function validate<TValue, TPathKind extends PathKind = PathKind.Root>(path: SchemaPath<TValue, SchemaPathRules.Supported, TPathKind>, logic: NoInfer<FieldValidator<TValue, TPathKind>>): void;

So, this function takes two arguments. One is the 'path' which is the same as the schemaPath.<fieldName> which we have been using so far in our validation rules. And the other is the logic.

Let's take a very simple example where we do not want the user to enter a username 'admin'. We can write a custom validator function for this -

    validate(schemaPath.username, ({value}) => {
      if (value() === 'admin') {
        return {
          kind: 'username-not-allowed',
          message: 'This username is not allowed. Please choose another username!'
        }
      }
      return null;
    });

That's it! Here, we are saying that if the 'value' of the 'username' field is 'admin', then return an object with a 'kind' property which tells Angular what kind of validation it is and the 'message' which tells Angular what custom message to show when this validation fails.

If the validation passes, then we can return 'null' or 'undefined' in this function.

If you are wondering about this 'value' argument, this is one of the properties of the 'FieldContext' object that this validator function receives. We are simply destructuring the object to grab the 'value' property. We could've also done -

    validate(schemaPath.username, (fieldContext) => {
      if (fieldContext.value() === 'admin') {
        return {
          kind: 'username-not-allowed',
          message: 'This username is not allowed. Please choose another username!'
        }
      }
      return null;
    });

This, 'FieldContext' object has these properties -

    value	        -	Signal containing the current field value
    state	        -	The field state reference
    field	        -	The field tree reference
    valueOf()	    -	Get the value of another field by path
    stateOf()	    -	Get the state of another field by path
    fieldTreeOf()	-	Get the field tree of another field by path
    pathKeys	    -	Path keys from root to current field

So, the bottom-line is -

    Return an error object with 'kind' and 'message' when validation fails. Return 'null' or 'undefined' when validation passes.

# CREATING REUSABLE VALIDATORS

Sometimes, we might want to create validators that we can reuse in multiple forms. For that, we can create functions that wrap the 'validate()' function. For example, in our case, we can do -

    notAllowedUsername(schemaPath: SchemaPath<string>, options?: {message?: string}) {
        validate(schemaPath, (fieldContext) => {
        if (fieldContext.value() === 'admin') {
            return {
            kind: 'username-not-allowed',
            message: options?.message || 'This username is not allowed. Please choose another username!'
            }
        }
        return null;
        });
    }

And now, we just need to use this method inside the form() function just like other built-in validators -


    (schemaPath) => {
        // OTHER VALIDATORS
        this.notAllowedUsername(schemaPath.username)
    }
