One of the common things we do with forms is cross field validation which means validating a field based on another field's value.

A very simple example is when we have password and confirm password fields. In that case, we want to validate the 'confirm password' field based on the value of the 'password' field.

We can write a function that wraps 'validate' function and here, we will get a 'SchemaPathTree' as an argument because we not only want to access the 'confirmPassword' field's value but also the 'password' field's value -

    confirmPassword(schemaPath: SchemaPathTree<FormData>, options?: {message?: string}) {
        validate(schemaPath.confirmPassword, (fieldContext) => {
        const password = fieldContext.valueOf(schemaPath.password);
        const confirmPassword = fieldContext.value();
        
        if (password && confirmPassword !== password) {
            return {
            kind: 'confirm-password',
            message: 'Passwords do not match!'
            }
        }

        return null;
        });
    }

We compare the two values and if they do not match, we return an error object. Otherwise, we return null which indicates that validation was successful.

Now, we can add this function to the form -

    loginForm = form(this.formModel, (schemaPath) => {
        this.confirmPassword(schemaPath);
    });

And now, when you enter a password and a confirm password, this validation will run and if they do not match, an error will be shown on the UI.

Validators work inside a reactive context, which means Angular automatically tracks all read signals.

This validator will run when:

    confirmPassword changes (because we call value())
    password changes (because we call valueOf(schemaPath.password))

So the validator reacts to changes of every read signal, not just the field it’s assigned to.

This is the benefit of having signal-based forms because everything updates properly without us having to manually write logic to do something when one field updates.

This also means that you need to be very careful of what you are reading inside the validator functions. If you read the entire form state, it means whenever the form state changes, this validator runs. This may not be what you want. So, read only what is needed. In our case, we just need to read the 'password' and 'confirmPassword' field's values so that's what we are doing.