So far, we have discussed synchronous validation in Signal Forms. This means, validations that are performed without waiting for something e.g. an api call's response.

There are times when we have to perform asynchronous validations. For example, a user might enter some username but we have to check if that username is available or not. It is not possible to check that synchronously so we have to make an API call for that.

How do we handle such validations in signal form?

# validateHttp() function

There is a built-in function provided by Angular for signal forms that we can use to perform http validations. This function is named 'validateHttp()' -

    function validateHttp<TValue, TResult = unknown, TPathKind extends PathKind = PathKind.Root>(path: SchemaPath<TValue, SchemaPathRules.Supported, TPathKind>, opts: HttpValidatorOptions<TValue, TResult, TPathKind>): void;

So, this function also takes the 'SchemaPath' as the first argument but the main difference here is the second argument which is of type 'HttpValidatorOptions'. This is an interface with these properties -

    1. readonly request: ((ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => string | undefined) | ((ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => HttpResourceRequest | undefined);
    2. readonly onSuccess: MapToErrorsFn<TValue, TResult, TPathKind>;
    3. readonly onError: (error: unknown, ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => TreeValidationResult;
    4. readonly options?: HttpResourceOptions<TResult, unknown>;

So, in the options object, we pass what is the 'url' to which we want to make the request, what happens when the api call is successful, what happens when it fails, and other options.

Let's take an example of a validator which makes an api call to check if a username is available. Let's say we make a call to - 

    /api/check-username?username=<the username we want to check>

So, this is how our validator will look like -

    checkUsername(schemaPath: SchemaPath<string>, options?: {message?: string}) {
        validateHttp(schemaPath, {
            request: ({value}) => `api/check-username?username=${value}`,
            onSuccess: (response: any) => {
                if (response.taken) {
                    return {
                        kind: 'usernameTaken',
                        message: 'Username is already taken.'
                    };
                };
                return null;
            },
            onError: (error) => {
                return {
                    kind: 'networkError',
                    message: 'Could not verify username availability',
                };
            }
        });
    };

So, here, we created an asynchronous validator which makes an api call to 'api/check-username?username=${value}' and here, the 'value' is coming from the 'FieldContext' type argument which the function passed to 'request' property accepts.

If the API call is successful, we check its 'response' and if 'response' has a 'taken' property set to 'true', it means the username is already taken so we return an error object. Otherwise, it means that the username is available so we return no error object and instead return 'null'.

Now, note that you are not limited to returning just one error object from the 'onSuccess' function. You can return multiple error objects as well if you want to check for multiple things in the response. For example, maybe alongside checking whether the username is taken or not, we also want to ensure username is profane or not. So, we can check for that in the same 'onSuccess' function and return another error object if the username is profane -

    onSuccess: (response) => {
        const errors = [];
        if (response.usernameTaken) {
            errors.push({
            kind: 'usernameTaken',
            message: 'Username taken',
            });
        }
        if (response.profanity) {
            errors.push({
            kind: 'profanity',
            message: 'Username contains inappropriate content',
            });
        }
        return errors.length > 0 ? errors : undefined;
    }

If the API call results in an error, then also we return an error object telling the user about the network error.

Do note that Asynchronous validation runs only when synchronous validation passes successfully. So, if we have one or more synchronous validators on the username field, then our Asynchronous Validation will not run unless all the synchronous validators pass.

Another thing about Asynchronous Validators is that since they take some time to run and return some result, we can show some message to the user while the validators are running using the 'pending()' signal on the form state.

    @if (form.username().pending()) {
        span class="spinner">Checking...</span>
    }

# validateHttp() function - Another way to make a request

Now, if you look at the type of 'request' inside the 'HttpValidatorOptions' which we pass as the second argument, it is like this -

    readonly request: ((ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => string | undefined) | ((ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => HttpResourceRequest | undefined);

You can see that this 'request' can be of two types. The first type is the one we have used in the above example where we return a string which is the URL to which we want to make the request.

The second type is where instead of returning a string, we return an object of type 'HttpResourceRequest' which has more properties that we can use to configure our request. This 'HttpResourceRequest' type has properties like 'url', 'method', 'headers', 'body', etc. which we can use to configure our request in a better way.

So, we can say -

    validateHttp(schemaPath, {
      // request: ({value}) => `api/check-username?username=${value}`,
      request: ({value}) => {
        return {
          url: `api/check-username?username=${value}`,
          method: 'GET'
          // More options like headers can be added here
        }
      },
      ....

This is when you need more control over your request and want to configure it in a better way. Otherwise, if you just want to make a simple GET request, then returning a string with the URL is also fine. It is mostly useful when you want to make a POST request or maybe to add some custom headers.

Also, what if we want to skip the validation performed with 'validateHttp'? Well, simply return 'undefined' inside the 'request' function. This is helpful in scenarios when it is not worth it to make an API call for validation.

For example, a user might have entered some usernames that we have already validated and saved somewhere. Now, if the user again enters any of those usernames, then it is not worth it to make the API call again for validation. So, in such cases, we can return 'undefined' from the 'request' function to skip the validation.

    request: ({value}) => {
        const username = value();
        // Skip HTTP request if already validated
        if (this.validatedUsernames.has(username)) return undefined;
        return `/api/users/check?username=${username}`;
    },

# CUSTOM ASYNCHRONOUS VALIDATION

Well, what if 'validateHttp()' does not fit our use case? What if we want to perform some custom asynchronous validation? Can we create our own custom asynchronous validator without using 'validateHttp()'?

Yes, we can. There is a function named 'validateAsync()' which we can use to create our own custom asynchronous validators in signal forms.

As the official documentation says, consider 'validateAsync()' only when 'validateHttp()' can't meet your needs. Some examples include:

    Non-HTTP validation - WebSocket connections, IndexedDB lookups, or Web Worker computations
    Custom caching strategies - Application-specific caching beyond simple memoization
    Complex retry logic - Custom backoff strategies or conditional retries
    Direct resource access - When you need the full resource lifecycle

Now, the way we create a custom async validator in signal forms requires a knowledge of Angular's new resource api so there is a bit more code involved as compared to using 'validateHttp()' but it gives us more control and flexibility over our asynchronous validation logic.

This is the type -

    function validateAsync<TValue, TParams, TResult, TPathKind extends PathKind = PathKind.Root>(path: SchemaPath<TValue, SchemaPathRules.Supported, TPathKind>, opts: AsyncValidatorOptions<TValue, TParams, TResult, TPathKind>): void;

So, this function takes as an input the 'SchemaPath' like all other validator functions, and an options object of type 'AsyncValidatorOptions' which has these properties -

    1. readonly params: (ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => TParams;
    2. readonly factory: (params: Signal<TParams | undefined>) => ResourceRef<TResult | undefined>;
    3. readonly onError: (error: unknown, ctx: FieldContext<TValue, TPathKind>) => TreeValidationResult;
    4. readonly onSuccess: MapToErrorsFn<TValue, TResult, TPathKind>;

The 'params' is a function that returns the parameters for your resource. The 'factory' is the function that takes the 'params' are input and creates a 'Resource' using those parameters. You can check out the official documentation which has an example of how to create a resource and use it in 'validateAsync()' function. The 'onSuccess' and 'onError' functions are used to return the validation result based on whether the resource call was successful or not.

# REQUEST CANCELLATION

When a field value changes, Signal Forms automatically cancels any pending async validation request for that field. This prevents race conditions and ensures validation always reflects the current value. You don't need to implement cancellation logic yourself.

Return 'undefined' from the request function to skip validation. Use this to avoid validating empty fields or values that don't meet minimum requirements:

# THE PENDING STATE

When we are performing asynchronous validation, there is a state called 'pending' which indicates that the validation is still in progress. This is useful to show some loading indicator to the user while the validation is being performed.

When async validation runs, the field's pending() signal returns true. During this time:

    1. valid() returns false
    2. invalid() returns false
    3. errors() returns an empty array
    4. submit() waits for validation to complete