There are cases when we have multiple forms in our application and they might have fields which have same set of rules for validation. In that case, instead of us duplicating the same validation logic in each form, we can actually create reusable schemas.

For example, we might have various forms which have the 'username' field and for every form, we want this field to have the 'required' validator, the 'minLength' validator, the custom validator to check that username cannot be 'admin', and also the asynchronous validator to check whether username is taken or not.

So, what we can do is create a schema at one place and then reuse it. 

To create one, we use the 'schema' function. This is the type of this function -

    function schema<TValue>(fn: SchemaFn<TValue>): Schema<TValue>;

So, it takes a function as an argument which is of type 'SchemaFn'. This 'SchemaFn' is the same function that we pass to the 'form' function as its second argument. This is how we use it -

    usernameSchema = schema<string>((username) => {
        required(username, { message: 'Username is required' });
        minLength(username, 5, { message: 'Username must be at least 5 characters' });
        this.notAllowedUsername(username)
        this.checkUsername(username);
    });

So, we explicitly pass the type of the field's value to the 'schema' function which in our case is 'string'. The function that it takes as input the 'SchemaPath' and then we can add all the common validation rules in it.

Now, how do we use it in a form?

Well, for that, we can use the 'apply' function -

    loginForm = form(this.formModel, (schemaPath) => {
        apply(schemaPath.username, this.usernameSchema);
    }

The 'apply' function takes the 'SchemaPath' on which we want to apply this schema as the first argument. The second argument is the schema that we created.

And that's it.

Now, in any form where you want these rules, just add this one line and you are good to go.

It is also possible that you have a form with multiple fields of same type (maybe an array of fields). And you want to apply a schema to all of them. In that case, you can use 'applyEach' function -

    const orderForm = form(this.orderModel, (order) => {
        (order.addresses, addressSchema);
    });

In this case, it will go over each field under the 'order.addresses' array and apply the schema to them.

Another helpful function is 'applyWhen' which can be used to apply some schema based on some condition -

    function applyWhen<TValue>(path: SchemaPath<TValue>, logic: LogicFn<TValue, boolean>, schema: NoInfer<SchemaOrSchemaFn<TValue>>): void;

So, this one not only takes a 'SchemaPath' but also a 'logic' which is a function that evaluates to a boolean. And if that logic evaluates to true, then the schema is applied.

There is also a function named 'applyWhenValue' -

    function applyWhenValue<TValue, TNarrowed extends TValue>(path: SchemaPath<TValue>, predicate: (value: TValue) => value is TNarrowed, schema: SchemaOrSchemaFn<TNarrowed>): void;

In this case, the second argument is a type predicate which accepts a value and if that value is of a specified type, then the schema is applied. So, it is more of a type narrowing thing which happens in this second argument.

Schemas are a powerful tool for organizing application architecture. You define rules for Address once – you’re sure that every form with an address validates it identically.