We already discussed how we can add validation logic in our Signal Forms using built-in and custom validators. But, there are also scenarios when we want to add other type of logic such as when a specific field should be disabled, when a specific field should be hidden, when a field should only be readonly, etc.

This is something Signal Forms also let us control very easily.

# DISABLED

Let's start with controlling when a field should be disabled. For this, we can use the 'disabled' function provided by Signal Forms and we use it in the same way as we use validators. That is, inside the 'form' function. This is the type of this function -

    function disabled<TValue, TPathKind extends PathKind = PathKind.Root>(path: SchemaPath<TValue, SchemaPathRules.Supported, TPathKind>, logic?: string | NoInfer<LogicFn<TValue, boolean | string, TPathKind>>): void;

So, it takes the 'SchemaPath' as the first argument and the second argument is the logic. So, let's say we want to disable the 'confirmPassword' field if the 'password' field is empty. In that case, we can do -

    disabled(schemaPath.confirmPassword, ({valueOf}) => valueOf(schemaPath.password) === '');

And now, if you load the form and there is no value in 'password' field, you won't be able to edit the 'confirmPassword' field, just as intended.

And since we are using 'valueOf', it means whenever user changes the 'password' field's value, this rule runs. So, if the user entered some value but later cleared it, that means the rule will run again and it will again disable the 'confirmPassword' field. That's the magic of Signals.

It works with the 'formField' directive to automatically bind the 'disabled' attribute based on the field's state, so you don't need to manually add [disabled]="yourForm.fieldName().disabled()" to your template.

Another thing worth mentioning is that disabled fields skip validation - they don't participate in form validation checks. The field's value is preserved but not validated.

Since the second argument of 'disabled' function is optional, it means you can simply pass a 'SchemaPath' and it will disable that field permanently. This can be useful in scenarios when you have fields that are not supposed to be edited but are there just to show some information to the user.

Another thing we can do is to have a custom message shown to the user when a field gets disabled. For that, instead of returning 'true', we can return a string that has the message.

    disabled(schemaPath.confirmPassword, ({valueOf}) => valueOf(schemaPath.password) === '' ? 'Please enter a password first!' : false)

In this case, you can access this message using the 'disabledReasons()' signal on the form state -

    @if (loginForm.confirmPassword().disabled()) {
        @for(reason of loginForm.confirmPassword().disabledReasons(); track reason) {
          <p class="text-gray-600 text-xs italic">{{ reason.message }}</p>
        }
    }

Each 'reason' has a 'message' property containing the string you returned.

You can also call 'disabled' multiple times on a field and all the returned reasons will accumulate. That's why 'disabledReasons()' returns an array, not just a single value.

# HIDDEN

Next up, let's talk about controlling when a field should be hidden. For this, we can use the 'hidden' function provided by Signal Forms and we use it in the same way as we used 'disabled' function. So, it accepts the 'SchemaPath' as the first argument and the logic as the second argument -

    hidden(schemaPath.confirmPassword, ({valueOf}) => valueOf(schemaPath.password) === '');

Here, we are saying that the 'confirmPassword' field should be hidden when the 'password' field is empty.

But unlike the 'disabled' function, using the 'hidden' function will not automatically hide the field. That's because there is no HTML attribute that can be used to hide an element. So, instead of that, we can use the 'hidden()' signal on the 'FieldState' to check if the field is hidden. We can use @if for this -

    @if (!loginForm.confirmPassword().hidden()) {
      // Confirm Password field's template code goes here
    }

Now, the 'Confirm Password' field will only be rendered when the 'password' field is not empty. And as you can see, we are negating the value of 'hidden()' signal because we want to show the field when it's not hidden. And like other rules inside the 'form' function, the 'hidden()' function will get called every time the password field's value changes because we are using 'valueOf' in the logic. So, if the user entered some value but later cleared it, that means the rule will run again and it will again hide the 'confirmPassword' field.

Just like 'disabled', 'hidden' fields also skip validation.

# READONLY

Just like 'disabled', we can also use the 'readonly' function to make a field readonly based on some logic.

If you are thinking what is the difference between 'disabled' and 'readonly', then here is the answer - when a field is disabled, you can't interact with it at all, you can't even focus on it. But when a field is readonly, you can focus on it and select the text inside it but you just can't change its value. Moreover, a field that is readonly will be included in HTML form submission, but a disabled field will not be included.

Let's say we want to make the 'email' field readonly when the 'username' field has the value 'admin'. In that case, we can do -

    readonly(schemaPath.email,  ({valueOf}) => valueOf(schemaPath.username) === 'admin');

In fact, if you do not provide any logic, then the field will be readonly permanently, just like 'disabled' -

    readonly(schemaPath.email);

And since there is an HTML attribute named 'readonly', we do not need to manually check for the readonly state in the template. The 'formField' directive will automatically bind the 'readonly' attribute based on the field's state, just like it does for 'disabled'.

The 'readonly' fields also skip validation.

# WHEN TO CHOOSE WHICH?

As per Angular's official documentation, here is when you should choose which one.

    1. Choose hidden() when the field:

    - Should not appear in the UI at all
    - Is irrelevant to the current form state
    - Example: Shipping address fields when "same as billing" is checked


    2. Choose disabled() when the field:

    - Should be visible but not editable
    - Needs to show why it's unavailable (using disabled reasons)
    - Should be excluded from HTML form submission
    - Example: Submit button disabled until form is valid, approval fields disabled for non-admin users
    
    3. Choose readonly() when the field:

    - Should be visible but not editable
    - Contains data users need to see, select, or copy
    - Should be included in HTML form submission
    - Example: Order confirmation number, system-generated reference codes