So far in Signal Forms, we used only one directive that Signal Forms provide and that is the 'formField' directive to bind the form fields to the form model. But there is another directive that Signal Forms provide and that is the 'formRoot' directive.

You can add this to the <form> element and this one simplifies the form submission. As we know, whenever we submit a form in Angular using the 'submit' function, we always have to ensure we call 'event.preventDefault'. When using the 'formRoot' directive, it automatically prevents the default browser form submission behavior and sets the novalidate attribute on the <form> element.

Setting 'novalidate' will disable the browser's built-in form validation that happens upon form submission.

    <form [formRoot]="loginForm">

So, we have removed the 'submit' handler from the form element.

But now, how do we handle the submission logic? Well, we can do that inside the 'form()' function. If you look at the types of the 'form()' function, we can also call it with three arguments -

    function form<TModel>(model: WritableSignal<TModel>, schema: SchemaOrSchemaFn<TModel>, options: FormOptions<TModel>): FieldTree<TModel>;

In this case, we pass a third 'options' argument which is of type 'FormOptions' and this this an interface with three properties -

    /**
    * The injector to use for dependency injection.
    */
    injector?: Injector;

    /** The name of the root form, used in generating name attributes for the fields. */
    name?: string;

    /** Options that define how to handle form submission. */
    submission?: FormSubmitOptions<TModel, unknown>;

We are interested in the 'submission' option which lets us define how to handle form submission. The 'submission' property takes an object of type 'FormSubmitOptions' -

    interface FormSubmitOptions<TRootModel, TSubmittedModel> {...}

In this object, we have various properties like -

    1. action -> Function to run when submitting the form data (when form is valid).
    2. onInvalid ->  Function to run when attempting to submit the form data but validation is failing.
    3. ignoreValidators -> Whether to ignore any of the validators when submitting. This these one of these three strings are values: 'pending' | 'none' | 'all' ('pending' is the default and it will ignore any pending validators when submitting form.)

So, this is how we can use it to handle form submission -

    loginForm = form(this.formModel, (schemaPath) => {
        // All the validation rules
    }, {
        submission: {
            action: async () => this.onSubmit(),
            onInvalid: (form) => {
                // Some logic such as focusing the first invalid field, etc.
            }
        } 
    });

When you use FormRoot, submitting the form automatically calls the submit() function, which marks all fields as touched (revealing validation errors) and executes your action callback if the form is valid. This is what we usually do manually where we ensure that every field is valid before executing the submission logic. But with 'FormRoot', this is handled for you.

One thing worth mentioning is how we return error objects. Just like the regular validation methods, we return an object with a mandatory 'kind' property and an optional 'message' property. But, in case of form submission, there are scenarios where due to some error from the backend, we might want to show an error on a specific field.

For example, we have a login form and when we submit the form, we make an API call to the backend to log in the user. But if the credentials are wrong, the backend will return an error response and in that case, we want to show an error on the 'password' field that says 'Incorrect password'.

In those cases, apart from 'kind' and 'message' properties, we can also returns a 'fieldTree' property that is the 'FieldTree' of the field on which we want to show the error. So, let's say we want to show an error on the 'password' field, we can return an error object like this from the 'action' callback -

    return {
        kind: 'incorrectPassword',
        message: 'Incorrect password',
        fieldTree: form.password
    }

# MANUAL SUBMISSION USING 'submit()' function

If you do not want to use the 'formRoot' directive, you can also use the 'submit' function that Signal Forms have. Its type is -

    function submit<TModel>(form: FieldTree<TModel>, options?: NoInfer<FormSubmitOptions<unknown, TModel>>): Promise<boolean>;

    function submit<TModel>(form: FieldTree<TModel>, action: NoInfer<FormSubmitOptions<unknown, TModel>['action']>): Promise<boolean>;

So, either you can pass the 'options' object as the second argument or you can directly pass an 'action'. But remember that if you do not use 'formRoot', you will have to manually call 'event.preventDefault()' in your form submission handler to prevent the default browser behavior. Moreover, you will also have to manually use the 'novalidate' attribute on the form element to disable the browser's built-in validation.

For example, we might have a custom handler for form submission and we want to call the 'submit' function inside that handler -

    onSubmit(event: Event) {
        event.preventDefault(); // Prevent the default form submission behavior
        submit(this.loginForm, {
            action: async (formFieldTree) => {
                // Some logic to execute when form is valid
            },
            onInvalid: (formFieldTree) => {
                // Some logic to execute when form is invalid
            }
        });
    }

# focusBoundControl METHOD

One really nice method that we get in Signal Forms is the 'focusBoundControl' which focuses the control that is bound to the field state on which it is called. Remember, each field state is bound to a specific form control. This is its type -

    focusBoundControl(options?: FocusOptions): void;

This can be used to focus on some field that we want or an even more useful use case is to focus the first invalid field on form submission so that the user quickly sees which field results in the form being invalid. We can do that in the 'onInvalid' callback of the 'submission' option -

    onInvalid: (formFieldTree) => {
        const firstValidationError = formFieldTree().errorSummary()[0];
        firstValidationError.fieldTree().focusBoundControl();
    }

Here, we are getting the first validation error from the form's error summary and then getting the 'field' that is associated with this error. And this gives us the 'FieldState' of that field. And on that, we can call the 'focusBoundControl' method to focus the control that is bound to that field.

Remember that in both 'action' and 'onInvalid' callbacks, we get the 'FieldTree' of the form as an argument and we can use that to get the error summary and focus the first invalid field.

Now, if you notice in the type of 'focusBoundControl' it also accepts an argument of type 'FocusOptions'. Right now, Angular has only one option we can pass and it is -

    interface FocusOptions {
        preventScroll?: boolean;
    }

So, what can this be used for?

Well, whenever we focus a control, the default browser behavior is to ensure that focused control or a focused element in general is in the current viewport. So, if the control that we are focusing is outside the current viewport, the browser will automatically scroll to that control. But in some cases, we might not want that to happen. For example, if we have a long form and we want to focus the first invalid field but we do not want the browser to scroll to that field, in that case, we can pass the 'preventScroll' option as 'true' -

    fieldState.focusBoundControl({ preventScroll: true });

By default, 'preventScroll' is 'false' which means that the browser will scroll to the focused control if it is outside the current viewport. But if we set it to 'true', the browser will not scroll to the focused control even if it is outside the current viewport.

This is one of those options that you may not always need, but it can be useful in certain scenarios where you want to manage the scrolling behavior yourself or you have a custom UI that handles focus in a specific way.