So far, we have seen Signal Forms with built-in form controls. However, in real-world applications, we often need to create custom form controls to handle specific use cases. In this section, we will learn how to create custom form controls in Angular using Signal Forms.

In Reactive forms, we used to use the 'ControlValueAccessor' interface to create custom form controls. And if you have done that, you know how much boilerplate code we had to write to implement that interface. The good news is that with Signal Forms, creating custom form controls is much simpler and requires significantly less boilerplate code.

There are two interfaces you can implement depending on your use case -

1. FormValueControl - FormValueControl is the interface for most input types - text inputs, number inputs, date pickers, select dropdowns, and any control that edits a single value. When your component implements this interface:

        - Required property: Your component must provide a 'value' model signal
        - What the FormField directive does: Binds the form field's value to your control's 'value' signal
        NOTE - Controls implementing FormValueControl must NOT have a 'checked' property

2. FormCheckboxControl - FormCheckboxControl is the interface for checkbox-like controls - toggles, switches, and any control that represents a boolean on/off state. When your component implements this interface:

        - Required property: Your component must provide a 'checked' model signal
        - What the FormField directive does: Binds the form field's value to your control's 'checked' signal
        NOTE - Controls implementing FormCheckboxControl must NOT have a 'value' property

So, let's say we want a custom 'Stepper' component in our form which has 'increment' and 'decrement' buttons to increase or decrease a numeric value. We can create this component and make it work seamlessly with our Signal Form without needing to implement any complex interfaces.

Well, first, we create our custom component. Let's call it 'stepper.ts'. So, which interface should we implement here? Since our 'Stepper' component will be editing a numeric value, we will implement the 'FormValueControl' interface.

Now, all we have to do is implement the 'FormValueControl' interface which expects a 'value' property in the component which is a ModelSignal. If you do not know, a 'ModelSignal' is a special Signal for a directive/component model field. Whenever its value updates, it emits to the output.

This is how our Stepper component will look like -

    import { Component, model } from '@angular/core';
    import { FormValueControl } from '@angular/forms/signals';

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-stepper',
        imports: [],
        templateUrl: './stepper.html',
        styleUrl: './stepper.css',
    })
    export class Stepper implements FormValueControl<number> {
        value = model(0);

        increment() {
            this.value.update((v) => v + 1);
        }

        decrement() {
            this.value.update((v) => v - 1);
        }
    }

That's it! You can see how simple it is to create a custom form control with Signal Forms. We just need to define a 'value' property as a ModelSignal and implement the logic for incrementing and decrementing the value. There is no need for any complex boilerplate code or implementing multiple methods as we had to do with 'ControlValueAccessor' in Reactive Forms.

Of course there are other methods that you have to implement if you want extra functionality but for a very basic custom form control, this is all you need to do. You can now use this 'Stepper' component in your forms just like any other form control and it will work seamlessly with the Signal Forms API.

Let's now update our Form's interface to have an extra property for the step count -

    export interface FormData {
        firstName: string;
        lastName: string;
        age: number | null;
        username: string;
        email: string;
        password: string;
        confirmPassword: string;
        stepCount: number; <- HERE
    }

And this means we also need to update our form model -

    formModel = signal<FormData>({
        firstName: '',
        lastName: '',
        age: null,
        username: '',
        email: '',
        password: '',
        confirmPassword: '',
        stepCount: 0
    });

And finally, let's bind the 'Stepper' component to the form -

    <app-stepper [formField]="loginForm.stepCount"></app-stepper>

And that's it! Now, the 'Stepper' component is fully integrated with our Signal Form and will update the 'stepCount' property in our form model whenever the increment or decrement buttons are clicked.

When you bind [formField]="loginForm.stepCount", the FormField directive:

    1. Detects your control implements 'FormValueControl'
    2. Internally accesses 'loginForm.stepCount().value()' and binds it to your control's 'value' model signal
    3. Binds form state signals (disabled(), errors(), etc.) to your control's optional input signals
    4. Updates occur automatically through signal reactivity

# ADDING STATE SIGNALS

Now, how do we react to state signals in our custom forms? For example, we might have added some rule in the formModel like this -

    min(schemaPath.stepCount, 0, { message: 'Step count should be a positive number'});

Now, inside our custom form component, we might want to show an error message based on whether the form control is invalid & touched, just like we do in built-in form controls.

For that, first, let's see what the 'FormValueControl' interface gives us. This interface in turn extends the 'FormUiControl' interface which has these optional properties -

    readonly errors
    readonly disabled
    readonly readonly
    readonly disabledReasons
    readonly hidden
    readonly invalid
    ... and so on

Basically, all the base set of properties shared by all form control contracts are in the 'FormUiControl' interface. So, if we want to react to any of these state signals, we can simply add them as input signals in our component.

For example, if we want to get the 'errors' signal in our custom control, we can simply add a new property like this -

    errors = input<readonly WithOptionalFieldTree<ValidationError>[]>([]);

So, this is now an input signal to receive all the errors on this custom control. We do not have to do anything else. The form handles everything else.

Now, apart from errors, we also want the 'touched' and 'invalid' signals to show the error message only when the control is touched and invalid. So, we can simply add these as input signals as well -

    touched = input(false);
    invalid = input(false);

Now, if you do not know, an 'InputSignal' is a ReadOnly signal which means we can only read its value but cannot update it. This is useful because these signals are meant to be controlled by the form and not by the custom control itself. The form will update these signals based on user interactions and validation status.

But there is one exception.

The 'touched' signal can also take a value of 'ModelSignal' which means not only we can read it, but we can also write to it. This is useful because sometimes, we want to control when our form control is considered to be 'touched'. For example, in our case, when we click the increment or decrement button, then we should consider our form control as touched. By default, Angular does not know that. So, we can do -

    touched = model(false);

    increment() {
        this.touched.set(true);
        this.value.update((v) => v + 1);
    }

    decrement() {
        this.touched.set(true);
        this.value.update((v) => v - 1);
    }

And finally, in the HTML of our custom control -

    @if (invalid() && touched()) {
        @for (error of errors(); track error) {
            <p class="text-red-500 text-xs italic">{{ error.message }}</p>
        }
    }

And that's it! Now, our custom 'Stepper' component will show error messages when the value is invalid and the control has been touched (i.e., when we click the increment or decrement buttons). We have successfully integrated state signals into our custom form control with minimal effort.

# IMPORTANT NOTE ABOUT VALIDATION

As the official documentation says, don't implement validation logic in your control. Define validation rules in the form schema and let your control display the results.

This means, all the validation logic should remain at the place your define the form model. We already did the same above where we defined the validation rule for 'stepCount' in the form model using the 'min' validator. Our custom control should only be responsible for displaying the value and any validation errors, but it should not contain any logic to determine whether the value is valid or not. This separation of concerns helps keep our code clean and maintainable.

If you want to maybe get the value of 'min', then you can add another input signal -

    min = input<number | undefined>(undefined);

You can use them to apply HTML5 attributes or show constraint hints in your template.