In Angular's reactive forms, there was one really nice thing that Angular used to do. It used to automatically attach CSS classes to the form field based on their state such as 'ng-valid', 'ng-invalid', 'ng-touched', 'ng-untouched', etc. This was really helpful in styling the form fields based on their state. But in Signal Forms, we do not have these classes by default.

# provideSignalFormsConfig

You can actually use the 'provideSignalFormsConfig' method inside the application config to provide these classes. The 'provideSignalFormsConfig' method takes an object of type 'SignalFormsConfig' where we can define the classes based on the field state. For example, we can define the classes as follows -

    provideSignalFormsConfig({
        classes: {
            'ng-valid': (field) => field.state().valid(),
            'ng-invalid': (field) => field.state().invalid(),
            'ng-touched': (field) => field.state().touched(),
            'ng-dirty': (field) => field.state().dirty()
        }
    });

To make it cleaner, you can get the 'state' inside the arguments using object destructuring and then use it to define the classes -

    provideSignalFormsConfig({
        classes: {
            'ng-valid': ({ state }) => state().valid(),
            'ng-invalid': ({ state }) => state().invalid(),
            'ng-touched': ({ state }) => state().touched(),
            'ng-dirty': ({ state }) => state().dirty()
        }
    });

One really wonderful thing about this approach is that you can add your custom classes globally for every signal form used in your application based on the state.

For example, we might want to add a class that is only applied if the form is 'touched' as well as 'dirty'. We can do that as follows -

    provideSignalFormsConfig({
        classes: {
            'ng-touched-dirty': ({ state }) => state().touched() && state().dirty()
        }
    });

The possibilities are endless here. You can add any class based on any state or combination of states and it will be applied to the form field automatically.

And the names can be anything. You are not limited to 'ng-' prefix. You can use any prefix or no prefix at all. For example, we can use 'touched-dirty' instead of 'ng-touched-dirty' as follows -

    provideSignalFormsConfig({
        classes: {
            'touched-dirty': ({ state }) => state().touched() && state().dirty()
        }
    });

# NG_STATE_CLASSES

What if all you want is to have the same old 'ng-' classes that Angular used to provide in Reactive forms? Well, you do not have to manually type all those classes. Signal Forms provides a constant called 'NG_STATE_CLASSES' which has the same classes that Angular used to provide in Reactive forms. You can simply use it as follows -

    import { NG_STATUS_CLASSES } from '@angular/forms/signals/compat';

    provideSignalFormsConfig({
        classes: NG_STATE_CLASSES
    });

This is basically a predefined object that Angular has -

    export const NG_STATUS_CLASSES: SignalFormsConfig['classes'] = {
        'ng-touched': ({state}) => state().touched(),
        'ng-untouched': ({state}) => !state().touched(),
        'ng-dirty': ({state}) => state().dirty(),
        'ng-pristine': ({state}) => !state().dirty(),
        'ng-valid': ({state}) => state().valid(),
        'ng-invalid': ({state}) => state().invalid(),
        'ng-pending': ({state}) => state().pending(),
    };

Angular team says was largely added to address backwards compatibility with existing code that relied on the class names applied by Reactive Forms (e.g. ng-invalid). They don't currently plan to expand the capabilities beyond supporting that use case.

So for now, all that you can do is add some global classes based on the field state using 'provideSignalFormsConfig' and you can also use the predefined 'NG_STATUS_CLASSES' to get the same old 'ng-' classes that Angular used to provide in Reactive forms.