In Angular 16.2 and above, we have two new lifecycle hooks available to use named "afterEveryRender" and "afterNextRender".

Angular provides powerful lifecycle hooks for component interaction, but sometimes you need to work directly with the DOM after rendering. This is where "afterEveryRender" and "afterNextRender" come in handy.

It is important to mention that we register these hooks using the "constructor", not as separate methods like how we used to do with "ngOnInit()" or "ngOnChanges()" etc.

Imagine you want to integrate a third-party "Chart" library that relies on DOM elements for visualization. Standard lifecycle hooks might not be ideal for this scenario, as the library might require the DOM to be fully in place before initialization. This is where "afterEveryRender" and "afterNextRender" provide a solution.

The "afterEveryRender" and "afterNextRender" functions let you register a render callback to be invoked after Angular has finished rendering all components on the page into the DOM.

If we write - 

    constructor() {
        afterEveryRender(() => {
            console.log("After render");
        })

        afterNextRender(() => {
            console.log("After next render");
        })
    }

You will notice that in the terminal, the "After render" and "After next render" is printed once or twice. But then, on every change, the "After Render" will print. This means that the callback inside "afterEveryRender()" is executing "after EVERY render cycle".

On the other hand, the "callback" inside "afterNextRender()" executes "ONLY ONCE" after the next render cycle, when the DOM is loaded.

It is worth mentioning that the execution of render callbacks are not tied to any specific component instance, but instead an application-wide hook.

They should be called in an "Injection Context", typically in the constructor.

# THE afterNextRender HOOK

The "afterNextRender" hook takes a callback function that runs once after the subsequent change detection cycle. Typically, "afterNextRender" is ideal for performing one-time initializations, such as integrating third-party libraries or utilizing browser-specific APIs.


# THE afterEveryRender HOOK

Unlike the "afterNextRender" hook, which executes only once, the "afterEveryRender" hook triggers after every change detection cycle. It serves as a valuable tool for DOM synchronization tasks, providing an escape route when the browser lacks a more suitable API for such operations. Utilize "afterEveryRender" to conduct additional reads or writes to the DOM each time Angular completes its mutations.

It’s essential to understand that it executes after every tick, regardless of whether your component necessitates a change detection check (such as with OnPush). Hence, it's advisable to wield it with caution.

This is just the basic idea of these hooks. There is more to them such as "Phases" which let you have a precise control over the sequencing of DOM operations. 

You can read more on the official Angular website - https://angular.dev/guide/components/lifecycle#aftereveryrender-and-afternextrender