# @ViewChild() DECORATOR

@ViewChild() is one of the most commonly used Decorators in Angular.

We know that we can use Template Variables to get a reference to the elements in template. And to access them in our typescript file, we pass them as argument to some method called in the template itself.

But what if we want to access the element before we call the method. For that, Angular provides the @ViewChild() decorator. This decorator is used to query the template for a particular element. It does that by accepting a template variable as parameter and then it queries the template for the element.


Suppose, we want to use @ViewChild() for the server content input.
So first, we have to provide a template variable to it. If we want to access a reference to the whole child component, we can even do that by simple putting that component's class name as input to @ViewChild().

But, there are some restrictions. We cannot use "class" or "id" of elements as the selectors in @ViewChild().

The following selectors are supported.

 - Any class with the @Component or @Directive decorator
 - A template reference variable as a string (e.g. query <my-component #cmp></my-component> with @ViewChild('cmp'))
 - Any provider defined in the child component tree of the current component (e.g. @ViewChild(SomeService) someService: SomeService)
 - Any provider defined through a string token (e.g. @ViewChild('someToken') someTokenVal: any)
 - A TemplateRef (e.g. query <ng-template></ng-template> with @ViewChild(TemplateRef) template;)


So, our serverContent input and button will now look like - 

    <input #serverContentInput type="text" class="form-control">
    <button (click)="onAddServer(serverNameInput)">Add Server</button>

Note that we are not passing serverContentInput as parameter to the onAddServer() because we are going to use @ViewChild() to access it.

In our component.ts file, we can now do - 

    @ViewChild('serverContentInput')
    serverContentInput: ElementRef;

It means, query the template for an element that has a template variable "serverContentInput" assigned to it. And then refer that element by this variable. Note that it is not mandatory to have variable name same as @ViewChild() selector.

Now, there is one important thing to note. When we access a template variable as an argument of  a method, then that template variable refers to the actual DOM element. But, when we use @ViewChild(), that variable is of type "ElementRef". It is not of type of that HTML element. 

This means, we don't directly access the .value property or any property of that HTML element if we use @ViewChild().

So, we cannot say "this.serverContentInput.value" as that would be undefined.

So, we first need to access the Native Element and then on that native element, we use .value property.


    onAddServer(serverNameInput) {
        this.serverCreated.emit({serverName: serverNameInput.value, serverContent: this.serverContentInput.nativeElement.value})
    }

So, as we can see, we first use .nativeElement property of this ElementRef type, and then we use .value on that.


NOTE - As we would learn in Lifecycle section, the view of the Child is not initialized until the ngAfterViewInit(). This means, we cannot access any property decorated with @ViewChild() in any of the hooks that are called before ngAfterViewInit().

But, there is a way to use the property in previous hooks. We have to pass a second argument in @ViewChild which is an object. And this object has as key "static" which is defaulted to false. So, to access this property in lets say ngOnInit, we have to set this static key to true.

    @ViewChild('heading', {static: true})
    heading: ElementRef;

Static stands for whether the ViewChild is “static” content e.g. Always available on the page, no matter page bindings, API calls, ngIfs etc. When set to true, we are telling Angular that the ViewChild will be available at anytime, so simply query for the ChildComponent at the earliest lifecycle hook available and then never query again.

When static is set to false, it is only available during the ngAfterViewInit lifecycle hook at the very earliest because this is the very first lifecycle hook that runs after ChangeDetection for the component.

NOTE that it is not a good idea to use static = true in case the element that we are trying to access depends on some ngIf condition. Because in that case, we will not get access to that element and it will be undefined. And the reason is that when we set static to true, Angular only tries to find our ViewChild *once*, and only once. If our ViewChild is not available in the DOM when Angular checks, it is never queried for again.


The rules for which one to use is actually quite simple.

1. If your ChildComponent is hidden or dynamically loaded in some way via component binding (Either with property binding or an API call), then you *must* set static to false.
   
2. If your ChildComponent is always available on the page, and is never hidden. Then you can use *either* static false or static true. But setting static to true is more performant, and gives you earlier access to the component (if required).

# THE "viewChild()" SIGNAL FUNCTION

In Angular, the "viewChild" signal function is a new feature introduced in newer Angular versions (17 and above) as part of the Angular Signals framework.

It is an enhanced version of the classic "@ViewChild" decorator. It allows you to retrieve and react to changes in child components, directives, or DOM elements in a reactive and modern way using Angular's signal-based reactivity system.

So, instead of writing - 

    @ViewChild('heading')
    heading: ElementRef;

We can write - 

    heading = viewChild<ElementRef>('heading');

And ofcourse this also means that wherever we were using the "heading" variable, we have to now use its getter because the "viewChild" function returns a "Signal".

Since now we have a "Signal", the reference to the child updates automatically when Angular detects changes, such as when the child component is destroyed or re-rendered.

We can also use "viewChild" with the "required" function - 

    heading = viewChild.required<ElementRef>('heading');

This will guarantee that there is indeed an element with "heading" as the template variable in our component's template.

Just like @ViewChild, if there are multiple elements with "heading" as the template variable, then "viewChild()" function will pick the first occurances.

The "viewChild" signal query initially performs the query when the view is initialized.

If at any point the queried element is destroyed, re-rendered, or updated from the component tree, then the signal query will perform the query again to update itself to the current state of the element.

If the element is destroyed then the value of the signal query will be undefined.

But when created again, the signal query will get the element from the template view again.

The benefit now is that since it returns a Signal, we can use "effect" function instead of any lifecycle hooks. This will make it available as soon as the "viewChild()" signal is set.

    constructor(private changeDetector: ChangeDetectorRef) {
        effect(() => {
            console.log("Inside effect function. Projected Paragraph Content is ", this.projectedParagraph().nativeElement.textContent)
        });
    }