# @ContentChild() DECORATOR

As we know by now, @ViewChild() can be used to get a reference to an element of component's template.

But, what if we want a reference to the element which is a part of the "projected" content to that component?

In simple words, how to get access to the elements of whatever is projected to the child component that we then accept using <ng-content>?

In that scenario, will the @ViewChild() work?

The answer is NO. @ViewChild() will not work and we will get undefined if we try to access the property in our .ts file, even if we try to access it after the View is initialized. That's because @ViewChild() can only query whatever the elements in the template of current component are present.

It cannot query the code that is projected from outside which is then accepted using <ng-content>.

Yes, we can assign a template variable to the element in projected content and then pass that template variable to the child but there is an even cleaner way to access the element in child component directly using a decorator.

That decorator is named @ContentChild().

And it works exactly like the @ViewChild(). We pass a name to it and it is the template variable we have assigned to an element in the projected template.

And also, since we are trying to get access to the projected "CONTENT", this content will be available only after it has been initialized. In other words, we can access this content only at the "AfterContentInit" hook and afterwards. 

## HOW TO ACCESS @ContentChild before AfterContentInit

In @ViewChild, we had the "static" property that, if set to True, enables us to access the reference before the View is initialized.

Well, in @ContentChild, we have the same concept. So here as well, we can pass a "static" property with "true" in order to access the reference in any previous hooks like ngOnInit().

But again, here as well, we have to make sure that we know when to use "static" as true. The rules are same as for @ViewChild. That is - 

1. If your Projected Content is hidden or dynamically loaded in some way via component binding (Either with property binding or an API call), then you *must* set static to false.
   
2. If your Projected Content is always available on the page, and is never hidden. Then you can use *either* static false or static true. But setting static to true is more performant, and gives you earlier access to the component (if required).

# contentChild() SIGNAL FUNCTION

Just like we have "viewChild()" signal function in newer Angular versions, we have "contentChild()" signal function that returns a Signal.

So, instead of writing - 

    @ContentChild('projectedParagraph')
    projectedParagraph: ElementRef;

We can write -

    projectedParagraph = contentChild<ElementRef>('projectedParagraph');

And again, we now have to use it using its getter.

The benefit now is that since it returns a Signal, we can use "effect" function instead of any lifecycle hooks. This will make it available as soon as the "contentChild()" signal is set.

    constructor(private changeDetector: ChangeDetectorRef) {
        effect(() => {
            console.log("Inside effect function. Heading Content is ", this.heading().nativeElement.textContent)
        });
    }

Just like "viewChild", we can make the "contentChild" as required if we are sure that a particular piece of template with the provided selector will always be projected in this component.

    projectedParagraph = contentChild.required<ElementRef>('projectedParagraph');