
# @VIEWCHILDREN
we know that @ViewChild() is used to get a reference to an element in the template and @ContentChild() is used to get a reference to an element in the projected content.

But, what if we have multiple elements that match the selector that we pass to @ViewChild() or @ContentChild()?

Suppose, we have four paragraph elements in the html of our component, all with same template variable.

    <p #para>First Paragraph</p>
    <p #para>Second Paragraph</p>
    <p #para>Third Paragraph</p>
    <p #para>Fourth Paragraph</p>

In the .ts, we use @ViewChild to access the reference.

        @ViewChild('para)
        para: ElementRef;

If we now try to print the textContent in AfterViewInit(), then we will see that it prints "First Paragraph".

This proves that @ViewChild() will always match the first element based on the selector if we have multiple elements with the same template variable assigned.

But, what if we want to get access to all those elements that have the same template variable assigned to them?

That's where Angular provides us the @ViewChildren() decorator.

ViewChildren decorator is used to get the list of element references from the View.

The ViewChildren decorator always returns a value of type "QueryList". We can loop over this list an access the individual element.

So, we can update the code now to this - 

    @ViewChildren('para')
    para: QueryList<ElementRef>;

Now, we used @ViewChildren() so it will not return us the "ElementRef" but rather a QueryList of "ElementRef".

And if we print this variable, it will now have a QueryList with properties like -> "dirty", "first", "last", "length", "_results", "changes" etc.

    first: returns the first item in the list.
    last: get the last item in the list.
    length: get the length of the items.
    changes: Is an observable. It emits a new value, whenever the Angular adds, removes or moves the child elements.

And we can use the array methods on this QueryList object such as map(), filter(), find(), reduce(), forEach(), some() etc.

So, to loop over it, we can use forEach() and then we can get access to each element with same template variable.

    this.para.forEach((element: ElementRef) => console.log(element))


# @CONTENTCHILDREN

Just like @ViewChildren, we have @ContentChildren decorator as well. And this works in the same way. The only difference is that @ViewChildren is used to query the template of the component. Whereas @ContentChildren is used to query the projected content.

# viewChildren() & contentChildren() SIGNAL FUNCTIONS

Just like we have "viewChild()" and "contentChild()" signal functions that return a Signal, we also have "viewChildren" and "contentChildren" signal functions that we can use instead of decorators.

So, instead of saying -

    @ViewChildren('para')
    para: QueryList<ElementRef>;

We can write - 

    para = viewChildren<ElementRef>('para');

Please note that we did not write -

    para = viewChildren<QueryList<ElementRef>>('para')

That is because the "viewChildren" signal function actually returns a type of "Signal<ReadonlyArray<T>>". So, it returns a Signal that wraps Readonly Array. So, all that we have to provide is the type of "T" which in our case is "ElementRef".

And now, to use it, we have to use the getter.

And the same is the story for "contentChildren()" signal function.

