In Angular 16, a new concept was introduced named "DestroyRef" as part of its developer tools for managing lifecycle hooks, especially the cleanup of subscriptions or other resources when a component or directive is destroyed.

We already know that we can use "ngOnDestroy" hook to unsubscribe to subscriptions or do other cleaup tasks when the component is destroyed. There is another way to do that now using "DestroyRef".

DestroyRef provides a way to access the destroy lifecycle of a component or service in Angular. It allows developers to register cleanup logic that will automatically be called when the component or directive is destroyed, simplifying the management of resources.

It is pretty simple to use "DestroyRef". To understand that, let's create a new "Interval" in one of our Components so that we can then clear this interval when component is destroyed.

Before that, let's update the app component a bit so that we have a button which shows or hides the game controls component.

    <div class="container">
        <button (click)="onShowGameControlsClick()">Show Game Controls</button>
    </div>
    <div class="container" *ngIf="showGameControls">
        <app-game-control (gameStarted)="onGameStarted($event)"></app-game-control>
    .....


Here is the ts file that has the new method -

    showGameControls: boolean = false;

    onShowGameControlsClick() {
        this.showGameControls = !this.showGameControls;
    }

Now, inside the game-control.component.ts, let's add a new "setInterval" in the ngOnInit that simply prints Hello World - 

    ngOnInit(): void {
        setInterval(() => {
        console.log("Hello World!");
        }, 1000);
    }

Now, let's see what happens when we toggle and un-toggle the button. The game controls component should shown or removed from the DOM but if you check the console, you will see that the hello world still keeps printing even though the component has been removed.

One way to handle this is to use "ngOnDestroy" and call the "clearInterval" there. But, another way is using "DestroyRef".

First, we have to inject it in our component -

    constructor(private destroyRef: DestroyRef) { }

Now we use its "onDestroy" method to register cleanup logic -

    ngOnInit(): void {
        const interval = setInterval(() => {
            console.log("Hello World!");
        }, 1000);

        this.destroyRef.onDestroy(() => clearInterval(interval));
    }

And that's it!

And it is worth mentioning that you do not have to write "onDestroy" method for each and every subscription or interval separately. You just write it once and inside it, just put all the cleanup logic -

    this.destroyRef.onDestroy(() => {
        this.subscription1.unsubscribe();
        this.subscription2.unsubscribe();
        ... and so on
    });

Another benefit of it is that it orks seamlessly with the new standalone components and signals introduced in newer versions of Angular.