Well-designed animations can make your application more fun and straightforward to use, but they aren't just cosmetic. Animations can improve your application and user experience in a number of ways:

 - Without animations, web page transitions can seem abrupt and jarring
 - Motion greatly enhances the user experience, so animations give users a chance to detect the application's response to their actions
 - Good animations intuitively call the user's attention to where it is needed

Typically, animations involve multiple style transformations over time. An HTML element can move, change color, grow or shrink, fade, or slide off the page. These changes can occur simultaneously or sequentially. You can control the timing of each transformation.

Angular's animation system is built on CSS functionality, which means you can animate any property that the browser considers animatable. This includes positions, sizes, transforms, colors, borders, and more. 

It is important to understand that if you can do the same thing using CSS Animations, then that's the best way, compared to using Angular Animations. The only reason to use Angular Animations would be if the animations depend on some properties in your Angular components.

In our project, we start with a simple button and text in app.component.html -

    <h1>Understanding Angular Animations</h1>

    <button (click)="fadeInOut()"> Fade in / out</button>

    <div *ngIf="isShown">
        This is a block with fade in / out
    </div>

The app.component.ts is simply this - 

    export class AppComponent {

        isShown: boolean = false;

        fadeInOut() {
            this.isShown = !this.isShown;
        }
    }

So, initially we have done no setup to use Angular Animations. Let's do that now.