Let's start with something pretty simple.

We have a button that shows a text when clicked and when again clicked, the text goes away. We want to add a Fade In and Fade out animation to this text when it appears on the screen and goes away.

For that, inside the component.ts file, we add a new property to the @Component() decorator, named "animations".

    @Component({
    selector: 'app-root',
    templateUrl: './app.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
    animations: [] <- HERE
    })

This property takes an "array" as a value and this is an array of "triggers". 


# TRIGGER

A Trigger in Angular is used to create an Animation Trigger which contains the "state" and "transition" of the animation.

Basically, we place a certain "name" in the HTML and then tell Angular to trigger a certain animation based off that name.

To create a new trigger, we can use the "trigger" method which is provided by @angular/animations package.

So, let's define a new trigger named "fadeIn" (can be any name). We do that by doing - 

    const fadeIn = trigger('fadeIn', []);

The trigger() method takes two arguments -> 

    1. The name of the trigger, which can be something of our choice
    2. An array of state() and transition() declarations

# TRANSITION 

In our case, we have a text that is not currently on the DOM and it appears only when the NgIf is true. It's harder to target an element that is entering a view because it isn't in the DOM yet. 

For this, Angular provides some aliases that we can use. These are ":enter" and ":leave".

The ":enter" transition runs when any *ngIf or *ngFor views are placed on the page, and ":leave" runs when those views are removed from the page.

So, we can create a new transition using the transition() method. This method is imported from the @angular/animations package. 

    const enterTransition = transition(':enter', []);

It takes two arguments. The first argument accepts an expression that defines the direction between two transition states, and the second argument accepts one or a series of animate() steps.

In our case, when text appears on the DOM, we want to animate that. Hence, we can use the alias ":enter".

The second argument accepts one or more series of "animate()" steps. Again, animate() is something we import from @angular/animatioms.

    const enterTransition = transition(':enter', [
        style({
            opacity: 0
        }),
        animate('0.5s ease-in', style({
            opacity: 1
        }))
    ]);

So, the above code says that when the element enters the DOM, the opacity is 0 and then the opacity becomes 1. And this transition is animated for 0.5s using "ease-in" animation.

Now, we add the "enterTransition" inside the trigger() that we have created and then use it inside animations property.

    const fadeIn = trigger('fadeIn', [enterTransition]);

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
        animations: [fadeIn] <- HERE
    })

Finally, it's time to use this on the text in HTML.

On our paragraph element, we will add this animation by using the trigger name and preceding it with an "@".

    <div *ngIf="isShown" @fadeIn>
        This is a block with fade in / out
    </div>

And that's it!

Now, when we click the button, the text will have a nice fade in animation. But, we see that when the button is clicked again and the text is removed from the DOM, there is no animation. And that's pretty self-explanatory because we have only defined a transition for ":enter", not for ":leave".

We can do the same with ":leave".

So, we first define a new transition() for ":leave" - 


    const leaveTransition = transition(':leave', [
        style({
            opacity: 1
        }),
        animate('0.5s ease-out', style({
            opacity: 0
        }))
    ]);

Then, we add this transition to a new trigger() - 

    const fadeOut = trigger('fadeOut', [leaveTransition]);

And finally, we add this new trigger to the "animations" array in @Component().

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
        animations: [fadeIn,fadeOut] <-
    })

And we are done!
