To understand "state" in Angular Animations, let's update our HTML and TS a bit.

First, in the HTML, we will comment the div that uses ngIf and instead, have this simple div without ngIf.

    <h1>Understanding Angular Animations</h1>

    <button (click)="fadeInOut()"> Fade in / out</button>

    <div>
        This is a block with fade in / out
    </div>

Now that there is no NgIf attached to it, it means that this div will always be shown on the page when the app loads, unless ofcourse we hide it by making its opacity 0.

Let's say we want to do exactly the same fade-in and fade-out but using a single animation using state.

# WHAT IS A STATE?

In Angular Animations, a "state" is the condition of an animation. For example, we want to make the opacity of an element 0 initially and when we want to show it, its opacity is changed to 1.

This means that we transition from one state which has opacity as 0, to another state which has an opacity 1.

And we can define these states using the "state" function that Angular Animation package provides.

The state() function creates a named set of CSS styles that should be applied on successful transition to a given state. The state can then be referenced by name within other animation functions.

# ADDING A NEW TRIGGER

So, we first define a new trigger, just like we did before.

Here, we will define both fade in and fade out transitions in a single trigger.

    const fadeInOut = trigger('fadeInOut', []);

Then, we add this trigger to the "animations" array in @Component() decorator.

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
        animations: [fadeInOut] <- HERE
    })

And now, we define this trigger.

# DEFINING THE STATES

Previously, we simply defined two new "transition" functions for ":enter" and ":leave".

But, here, the element is always on the DOM so ":enter" and ":leave" are not required here.

Instead, we have to manually set the state of the element, based on some condition. For example, let's say that when we click the "fade in/out" button, the state of the div should be "open". And when we click it again, it should be "close".

In the open state, we want the div to have opacity as 1 whereas in close state, it should have the opacity as 0.

So to define this, we have to use this trigger in the HTML with property binding.

    <div [@fadeInOut]="isShown ? 'open': 'close'">
        This is a block with fade in / out
    </div>

The "isShown" is initially "false" so initially, the state will be "close". And after we click the button once, it becomes "true", hence the state changes to "open".

And now, we need to define these two states in our code.

We do that using state() function.

    const fadeInOut = trigger('fadeInOut', [
        state('open', style({
            opacity: 1,
        })),

        state('close', style({
            opacity: 0,
        }))
    ]);

Note that trigger() takes an array as second argument and this array takes both state() and transition() entries.

So, we first define the two states - "open" and "close".

In the "open" state, the element should have opacity 1. But in "close" state, it should be 0. And that's what we define in the code.

Now, if you just write this, and then run the application, you will see that when app loads, the div with the text is not visible. But if you inspect the code in browser, you will see that it is there in the HTML but has opacity 0. That's because it is in "close" state initially.

And once we click the button, it shows up and opacity becomes 1 because it is now in "open" state.

The issue is that, there is no animation when the opacity changes from 0 to 1. It all happens instantly.

And now, it's time to add a "transition".

# ADDING TRANSITIONS()

Note how in the previous section, when we added a transition, we provided a string as the first argument - ":enter" and ":leave". And note that these are aliases. 

    ":enter" is an alias for "void => *"
    ":leave" is an alias for "* => void"

This means, when the state changes from "void" to "*" then for that, we have the alis ":enter". The "void" state means element is not in the DOM. And * matches to any state, including "void".

Similarly, in our current code, we have two states "open" and "close". So, when we go from the "open" state to the "close" state, we want to define a transition for that.

Here is how we do that - 

    transition('open => close', [
        animate('1s ease-out')
    ]),

Note that we wrote "open => close" which means state change from "open" to "close". So, when the state changes from "open" to "close", we will have an "ease-out" animation for 1 second.

Similarly, we define a transition for "close => open".

    transition('close => open', [
        animate('1s ease-in')
    ]),

So, the final code for the trigger becomes -

    const fadeInOut = trigger('fadeInOut', [
        state('open', style({
            opacity: 1,
        })),

        state('close', style({
            opacity: 0,
        })),

        transition('open => close', [
            animate('1s ease-out')
        ]),

        transition('close => open', [
            animate('1s ease-in')
        ])

    ]);

And that's it. So now, we did the same thing as before, but without the *ngIf and ":enter" and ":leave" states. We did the same thing using "states" and inside a single trigger.

# HOW TO AVOID CODE REPEATITION

Let's say that for both "open => close" and "close => open" we simply want to have an "ease-in" animation for 1s.

So, instead of writing - 

        transition('open => close', [
            animate('1s ease-in')
        ]),

        transition('close => open', [
            animate('1s ease-in')
        ])

We can simply do the same thing in a single transition() function.

All we are saying is that no matter if the state changes from "open to close" or "close to open", do an ease-in animation for 1s.

So, we can write - 

        transition('open <=> close', [
            animate('1s ease-in')
        ]),

And that's it. Here, "<=>" means bidirectional. It will match both the cases, that is, when state changes from open to close or when it changes from close to open.
