Many times, when the Animation starts or ends, we want to have some piece of code that runs at that time.

For that, we can use the Animation Callbacks in Angular Animations.

When we define a trigger in our .ts file, we can not only use its name in HTML file to set the different states, but we can also use it to define callbacks when the animation "starts" or "ends".

For example, when an animation starts, we want to call some function. We can do that as following - 

    <div 
        [@fadeInOut]="isShown ? 'open': 'close'"
        (@fadeInOut.start)="onAnimationStart($event)"
    >
        This is a block with fade in / out
    </div>

So here, instead of property binding, we use event binding to bind the "@fadeInOut.start" event to a function that is defined in our component.ts file.

Similarly, to define some function to be called when an animation ends, we can do -

    <div 
        [@fadeInOut]="isShown ? 'open': 'close'"
        (@fadeInOut.start)="onAnimationStart($event)"
        (@fadeInOut.done)="onAnimationEnd($event)"
    >
        This is a block with fade in / out
    </div>

Inside our .ts file, we can have these two functions. Let's console log something at first - 

    onAnimationStart(event: any) {
        console.log("Animation started", event)
    }

    onAnimationEnd(event: any) {
        console.log("Animation Ended", event)
    }

You will notice something interesting when your reload. You will see that the console will print the "Animated started" and "Animated ended", even though we haven't yet clicked the button to show or hide the text.

If you check the "event" object that we console logged, then it shows that the "fromState" is "void" and the "toState" is "closed".

When an element is entering the DOM, then it is coming from the "void" state. When an element is leaving the DOM, then is going to the "void" state.

That's why, initially, the element renders on the DOM so it comes from the "void" state and goes to "closed" state.

And once you click the button to show or hide the text, you will see the new console logs that show the new updated "fromState" and "toState".

This event object has information such that "fromState", "toState", "triggerName", "element" and so on.

# USE CASES

A potential use for animation callbacks could be to cover for a slow API call, such as a database lookup. For example, an InProgress button can be set up to have its own looping animation while the backend system operation finishes.

Another animation can be called when the current animation finishes. For example, the button goes from the inProgress state to the closed state when the API call is completed.

An animation can influence an end user to perceive the operation as faster, even when it is not.

Callbacks can serve as a debugging tool, for example in conjunction with console.warn() to view the application's progress in a browser's Developer JavaScript Console.