If you recall, when we worked on creating our custom Directive, then we used the Dependency Injection concept there.

We were passing the name and type in the constructor and letting Angular handle the rest.

For example, to get the reference of element on which we used the Directive, we passed "ElementRef" in the constructor.

    constructor(private elementRef: ElementRef){}

We were not manually doing -> const elementRef = new ElementRef().

This was actually Dependency Injection in action.

Dependency injection (DI) is the part of the Angular framework that provides components with access to services and other resources. Angular provides the ability for you to inject a service into a component to give that component access to the service.

And that's the reason why when we created a service, then that file already had a decorator named @Injectable.

The @Injectable() decorator defines a class as a service in Angular and allows Angular to inject it into a component as a dependency.

So, dependency is basically something that a component depends on or requires. For example, our component depends on the LoggingService to log something to console.


# INJECTOR

When a dependency is requested, the injector checks its registry to see if there is an instance already available there. If not, a new instance is created and stored in the registry.

Angular creates an application-wide injector (also known as "root" injector) during the application bootstrap process, as well as any other injectors as needed. 
 
In most cases you don't need to manually create injectors, but you should know that there is a layer that connects providers and consumers.

# INJECTING A SERVICE

So, we cannot manually instantiate a service in our component. So, how do we use our Service then?

Well, we will tell Angular to give us an instance of this service. 

We do that by mentioning what we require in the constructor of the component class.

Since we want an instance of loggingService, we will mention that in the constructor as - 

    constructor(private loggingService: LoggingService){}

It is important that we mention the type of the instance. It is not optional here.

And now, we can us this loggingService instance in our class and we did not even have to instantiate it by doing new LoggingService()

But, there is one problem here.

If we run our app now, we get an error in the console. The error says - 

    NullInjectorError: No provider for LoggingService!

# AN ALETERNATE WAY OF INJECTING SERVICES IN ANGULAR

Instead of using the "constructor" to inject services in a component, we can also use the "inject()" function to do the same. So, we could write -

    loggingService: LoggingService = inject(LoggingService);

The "inject()" function fetches an instance of a specified token from the DI container, just like Angular's constructor-based DI.

With "inject()", there's no need to declare dependencies in the constructor, making it easier to set up dependencies within certain service types or functional providers.

It allows for dynamic access to dependencies at runtime, which can be advantageous in certain advanced scenarios where the dependency needed isn't always known at compile-time.
