# PROVIDING THE DEPENDENCY

So far, we told Angular that we need LoggingService instance. But, Angular does not know yet "HOW" it will give us this instance.

We have to make it available in the Dependency Injection by "PROVIDING" it. 

A provider is an instruction to the Dependency Injection system on how to obtain a value for a dependency. 

There are three ways to provide a dependency - 

**1. AT THE NgModule LEVEL -**

@NgModule({
    declarations: [
        AppComponent,
        AccountComponent,
        NewAccountComponent
    ],
    imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        FormsModule,
    ],
    providers: [LoggingService], <== HERE
    bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })

In this way, we pass the service to the "providers" fiels of @NgModule decorator.

When we do this, it means that now, this Service can be used by any component, directive or pipe declared in this NgModule.

When you register a provider with a specific NgModule, the "SAME" instance of a service is available to all applicable components, directives and pipes.


**2. AT THE COMPONENT LEVEL -**

But, it is also possible that sometimes we don't want the service to be available for all the components, pipes and directives in the module. But only for some specific components, pipes and directives.

In that case, we can also add this service in the "providers" field of the @Component decorator of a specific component.

    @Component({
    selector: 'app-new-account',
    templateUrl: './new-account.component.html',
    styleUrls: ['./new-account.component.css'],
    providers: [LoggingService]
    })

Providing a service in the component limits the service only to that component and its descendants. Other components in the same module can't access it.

In this case, with each new instance of component, we get a "NEW" instance of the service.

For example, a user editing component, UserEditorComponent, that needs a private copy of a caching UserService should register the UserService with the UserEditorComponent. Then each new instance of the UserEditorComponent gets its own cached service instance.


**3. AT THE APPLICATION ROOT LEVEL -**

    @Injectable({
    providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class LoggingService {}

This can be done by adding the providedIn: 'root' field to the @Injectable decorator. providedIn: 'root' specifies that Angular should provide the service in the root injector.

When you add a service provider to the root application injector, it's available throughout the application. Additionally, these providers are also available to all the classes in the application as long they have the lookup token.

You should always provide your service in the root injector unless there is a case where you want the service to be available only if the consumer imports a particular @NgModule.

When you provide the service at the root level, Angular creates a single, shared instance of the Service and injects it into any class that asks for it. 

Registering the provider in the @Injectable metadata also allows Angular to optimize an app by removing the service from the compiled application if it isn't used, a process known as tree-shaking.


# INJECTING THE DEPENDENCY

We know we can pass the service in the constructor if we want Angular to give us an instance of that service.

      constructor(private loggingService: LoggingService){}

But, there is one other way of injecting the dependencies.

We can use the "inject" method as well - 

    private loggingService = inject(LoggingService);


When Angular discovers that a component depends on a service, it first checks if the injector has any existing instances of that service. If a requested service instance doesn't yet exist, the injector creates one using the registered provider, and adds it to the injector before returning the service to Angular.

When all requested services have been resolved and returned, Angular can call the component's constructor with those services as arguments.


# Injecting services in other services

It is not always necessary that only components require services. In fact, it is possible that one service requires another service.

For example, suppose we have a service to make an API call. And we have a separate service to log data to the console.

Now, in the service where we make an api call, we want to log the data so we have to use the loggingService in that.

So, how can we inject a service into another service? Is there any different method in this case?

The answer is NO!

When a service depends on another service, follow the same pattern as injecting into a component. 

So, in the service that makes the api call, we will import the Logging Service, pass it to the constructor and then we can use it.



