So far we know how we can provide Services. We can either use @Injectable along with "providedIn" property, or we can add the Service to the "providers" array, or we can add it to the specific component's "providers" array.

But, what exactly happens behind the scenes when we do that?

For that, let's go back to providing services using "providers" array of a module and let's comment out the @Injectable() decorator from Service class.

So, instead of - 

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class LoggingService {...}

It will be like this - 

    export class LoggingService {...}

And now, in the "app.module.ts" file, we add this service to "providers" array - 

    providers: [LoggingService]

And our app works just as it was doing before.

Because still, the "LogginService" is being provided to the entire application as one single instance since it is in the root module.

But, this is a shorthand for something else. Angular actually creates a "Provider Object" for this "providers" array which we can also create ourselves like this -

    providers: [
        {   
            provide: LoggingService, 
            useClass: LoggingService
        }
    ]

The "provide" property holds the Dependency Injection Token or DI Token. In simple terms, these are like a key and the Angular's Dependency Injection system needs this key to locate the actual "Provider" in the "Providers" array.

The value of this "provide" is simply a type in our case. This means, whenever some component or directive or any other service requests for an instance of type "LoggingService", then Angular's Dependency Injection system will match it with the above entry because the key is "LogginService" type as well.

And we can inject it like this -

    constructor(
        private productService: ProductService
    ) {}

# STRING TOKENS AND THEIR PROBLEMS

We can even have simple "string" values as the values for "provide" key. For example, we could've written - 

    providers: [
        {   
            provide: 'LOGGING_SERVICE', 
            useClass: LoggingService
        }
    ]

And in this case, we could've injected it in any other component like this - 

    constructor(
        @Inject('PRODUCT_SERVICE') private productService: ProductService
    ) {}

Ofcourse there are some shortcomings with "String" tokens.Two developers can use the same token at different parts of the app. Third-party libraries can also use the same token.

So, what happens when there are multiple tokens with same key?

What if we have this - 

    providers: [
        {   
            provide: 'LOGGING_SERVICE', 
            useClass: LoggingService
        },
        
        {   
            provide: 'LOGGING_SERVICE', 
            useClass: SomeOtherLoggingService
        }
    ]

Well, in this case, the "Last" to register overwrites all the previously registered tokens.

So, whenever something asks for "LOGGING_SERVICE", Angular will always give the instance of "SomeOtherLoggingService" as that is the last one to be registered.

# InjectionToken CLASS

String tokens are easier to mistype, making it difficult to track & maintain in big applications. This is where the "InjectionToken" comes into the picture.

The Injection Token allows us to create a token to inject the values that don’t have a runtime representation.

It is very similar to string tokens. But instead of using a hardcoded string, we create the Injection Token by creating a new instance of the "InjectionToken" class. They ensure that the tokens are always unique.

To create one, we first import "InjectionToken" class from @angular/core - 

    import { InjectionToken } from '@angular/core'; 

And now, we can create a new Injection token.

Let's create a new "tokens.ts" file to keep all our custom injection tokens in it and export them - 

    export const LOGGING_SERVICE_TOKEN = new InjectionToken<LoggingService>('some-name-here');

Now, we can use this "LOGGING_SERVICE_TOKEN" as the Injection Token for "provide" property -

    providers: [{
        provide: LOGGING_SERVICE_TOKEN, 
        useClass: LoggingService
    }]

And just like in case of "String Tokens", whenever we have to inject the "LoggingService" in any component or service, we have to use @Inject() by passing the name of this "Injection Token" as value - 

    constructor(@Inject(LOGGING_SERVICE_TOKEN) private loggingService: LoggingService){}

If you want to use the "inject()" method, then you use it like this - 

    private loggingService = inject(LOGGING_SERVICE_TOKEN);

# ANGULAR PROVIDER OPTIONS

You must've noticed that the other property that we used for a "Provider Object" so far is "useClass".

But, that's not the only option that we have.

We also have "useValue", "useFactory", and "useExisting".

Angular can create a dependency from the existing service class (useClass). It can inject a value, array, or object (useValue). It can use a factory function, which returns the instance of service class or value (useFactory). It can return the instance from an already existing token (useExisting).

## useClass

Whenever we want to provide an "instance of a class", we use "useClass". This expects us to provide a "Type". Then, the "Injector" creates a new instance from that type and injects it into any component or service that asks for it. It is similar to calling the new operator and returning instance. If the type requires any constructor parameters, the injector will resolve that also.

Ofcourse if the Service is registered in the root injector, then the instance is created only once and that is then reused for all the requesting components or services.

One very interesting use case of "useClass" is to Switch the Dependencies. Maybe we have some change in our entire application where instead of using "LoggingService", we want to now use "MockLoggingService" instead. We can do that by making a change at one place - 

    providers: [{
        provide: LoggingService, 
        useClass: MockLoggingService
    }]

And boom. Now, whatever component asks for "LoggingService", Angular's Dependency Injection will see that when someone asks for "LogginService", we have to inject the instance of the "NewLoggingService" class. And it does just that!

This is quite useful for maybe testing purposes when you don’t want to change existing code but need to switch the service instead.

## useValue

Sometimes, we want to provide simple values, not the instances of classes. In that case, we can use "useValue". This is pretty straightforward.

Let's say that there is some api URL that we want to be used application wide. So, we can create a simple String Token for it and as its value, we can use the actual string value of the URL using "useValue".

Something like this -

    providers: [
        {
        provide: 'API_URL', 
        useValue: 'https://www.google.com/'
        }
    ]

Now, let's say we want to inject it in some component - 

    constructor(@Inject('API_URL') private API_URL: string){}

And now, we can use it - 

    console.log("API URL is " + API_URL)

And "strings" are not the only things we can use a values. We can assign "numbers" or even any other objects.

For example -

    {
      provide: 'COUNT', 
      useValue: 123
    }

OR 

    {
      provide: 'GOOGLE', 
      useValue: {
        websiteName: "Google",
        url: "https://www.google.com/"
      }
    }

Maybe we want to provide an application wide configuration object but we do not want that object to be modifiable. We can use Object.freeze for that -

    useValue: Object.freeze({
        websiteName: "Google",
        url: "https://www.google.com/"
    })

Since "Functions" are also objects in javascript/typescript, we can even provide "Functions" are values - 

    {
      provide: 'FUNC', 
      useValue: () => "I am a function"
    }

And we can use it like this -

    constructor(@Inject('FUNC') private func: any){
        console.log(func());
    }

So, unlike "useClass", "useValue" doesn’t involve creating instances of services. Instead, it directly provides any value to the service instance, regardless of its type.”

## useFactory

UseFactory is used when you need to dynamically create and provide a dependency based on certain conditions or parameters. It’s like having a factory that produces instances of the required service on-demand, allowing for flexible customization.

Let's say, we have a String Token named "VAL" that returns a negative or a positive value -

    {
      provide: 'VAL', 
      useValue: 1
    },

Now, we want to create another Provider Object but what that object returns depends on this "VAL" token. So, here, we can use "useFactory" - 

    {
      provide: 'CONTENT', 
      useFactory: (value) => {
        if(value < 0) return "I am negative"
        return "I am positive"
      }
      deps: ['VAL']
    }

The injector uses the "deps" array to resolve the dependencies and inject them. This array has the list of values used as arguments to the "useFactory" function.

So, you might argue, what is the difference if we use "useValue" and then use a function as the value, versus useFactory?

Well, when we say -

    {
      provide: 'FUNC', 
      useValue: () => "I am a function"
    }

Then, whenever we inject "FUNC", then the value we get is the actual function. And we have to invoke that function to get the return value.

But, when we say -

    {
      provide: 'FUNC', 
      useFactory: () => "I am a function"
    }

Here, whenever we inject "FUNC", then the value we get is the return value of this function, not the function itself.

## useExisting

"useExisting" is mostly similar to "useClass", just slightly different in terms of how instances are created when injected into the component.

As the name suggests, it will provide an existing dependency under a new token.

Instead of creating a new instance, angular will use existing instance registered under different token. Instead of two instances, there will be one instance only.

Let's take an example. Let's say we have two services - 

    @Injectable()
    export class ServiceOld {
    text = 'old service'
    }

    @Injectable()
    export class ServiceNew {
        text = 'new service'
    } 
And, we use "useClass" to use "ServiceNew" whenever the dependency of "ServiceOld" is requested -

    providers: [
        ServiceNew,
        {provide: ServiceOld, useClass: ServiceNew}
    ],

Now, we have a component that is like this -

    @Component({
    selector: 'my-app', 
    template: '<h1>{{ text }}</h1>'
    }) export class AppComponent {
        text;
    
        constructor(private old: ServiceOld, private new: ServiceNew) {
            this.new.text = 'change value';
            this.text= this.old.text;
        }
    }   

Here, we update the "text" property inside "ServiceNew" to "change value". So, what do you think will be printed on the page when we set "this.text" to the "text" property of "old"?

Remember that while "old" is a type of "ServiceOld", we have said that whenever a component asks for "ServiceOld", inject an instance of "ServiceNew" instead.

Well, in this case, the page will show - 

    new service

It does not show "change value" even though we have changed the value of text property in "ServiceNew". This shows that "useClass" will create a new instance of "ServiceNew" and then use that new instance for injecting it in place of "ServiceOld". It will not reuse the existing instance of "ServiceNew".

Now, let's use "useExisting" here -

    providers: [
        ServiceNew,
        {provide: ServiceOld, useExisting: ServiceNew}
    ],

now, the page will show -

    change value

This means, now, the same existing instance of "ServiceNew" is being used when injecting it in place of "ServiceOld". That's why "old" and "new" both refer to the same object.