Once the project is generated, there are some config files in the root of the project. Now, based on the Angular versions, these may or may not exist in your project.

# .editorconfig

The very first file is the ".editorconfig" file. And as the name suggests, this one is used to define the coding styles and helps maintain consistent coding styles for multiple developers working in the same project across various IDEs and editors. If you open this file, by default, it have some lines like - 

    charset = utf-8
    indent_style = space
    indent_size = 2
    insert_final_newline = true
    trim_trailing_whitespace = true

So, this does not have anything to do with the working of Angular.

# .gitignore

This is a very important file if you are working with Git. This file specifies what are all the files that Git should ignore. For example, we do not want the "node_modules" folder to be tracked by Git because we do not want such a huge folder to be pushed to a repository.

By default, the .gitignore file will have a lot of files and folder names mentioned that should not be tracked. For example, the /dist folder. This is a folder that is generated after we build our project. We would not want to push this folder to a repository when we commit the changes.

# angular.json

This is perhaps the most important config file of an Angular project and this is used to define configurations for the Angular project. Hence, this one requires its separate section so we will discuss it later.

# package.json and package-lock.json

Every Angular project will have these two files. 

The "package.json" file serves as a manifest file for Node projects and it contains the metadata about the project along with its dependencies.

So, it has things like the name of the project, the version, various scripts, the dependencies and so on.

When we do "npm install", then the packages that we install are also added in this file along with their version. While we do not commit the node_modules folder, we do commit the package.json file to version control systems like Git so that anyone can easily install the dependencies by simply doing "npm install".

But, what about the "package-lock.json"?

If you open this file, you will see that it also has the name of the project, the version, and a list of packages in the project.

The difference is that it has a detailed record of the dependencies. It locks down the specific versions of every installed package, preventing unintended updates.

This file ensures that every developer working on the project, as well as the CI/CD system, uses the exact same versions of dependencies.

package-lock.json optimizes dependency installation by storing a flat node_modules structure, reducing the need for deep dependency resolution during installation.

package-lock.json is crucial for locking dependencies to specific versions, ensuring consistent installations across different environments. Without it, variations in installed versions may occur. This file guarantees reproducibility by specifying exact versions, preventing discrepancies. 

Including both package.json and package-lock.json in source control ensures that collaborators install the exact dependencies, maintaining uniformity.

# tsconfig.json

This file is used to configure the Typescript compiler for our Angular project.

The presence of a tsconfig.json file in a directory indicates that the directory is the root of a TypeScript project. The tsconfig.json file specifies the root files and the compiler options required to compile the project.

By default, Angular configures the Typescript compiler with some options and all of those are in this file. For example, you will see the "strict" flag is true in this file. The strict option will subject your code to stricter rules in terms of static type checking. Stricter means safer, so it's a good thing. 

One thing to note is the "angularCompilerOptions" property in this file. This is an object that is picked up by the Angular compiler after Typescript compiler is done compiling the ts files into javascript. So, this object is used to configure the Angular compiler.

# tsconfig-app.json

There is also a file named "tsconfig-app.json" in our project. This file is related to the Angular app in particular. It is useful especially when you have a "micro-frontend" system where there are multiple Angular subprojects, each of them with its own "tsconfig-app.json" onfiguration.

You will see that the "tsconfig-app.json" extends the "tsconfig.json" file.

# tsconfig-spec.json

Finally, we have the "tsconfig-spec.json" file. As the name suggests, this is something related to "test" files.

It is the typescript configuration for the application tests. For example, the default Angular project has a "tsconfig-spec.json" file that says - 

    "types": [
      "jasmine"
    ]

It allows us to use Jasmine's declarations in tests.

Just like the "tsconfig-app.json", the "tsconfig-spec.json" also extends the "tsconfig.json" file.