Behind the scenes, the Angular CLI uses the angular.json file for configuration. It stores information about the project's architecture, dependencies, build and test configurations, and other settings.

This file allows you to control the build and runtime settings for your Angular application, as well as manage the different environments and configuration profiles for your project. The angular.json file provides a centralized location for defining these settings, making it easier to manage your Angular application's configuration.

Let's talk about some properties in this file.

## $schema

The very first property is the "$schema" and it points to the schema.json file present in the @angular/cli package. A schema is used by the Angular CLI for validating the angular.json file. We can say taht the "schema.json" has some rules and configurations for the angular.json file.

## version

This is just the version of the angular.json schema.

## newProjectRoot

This is an interesting property. This property is used to define the name of the folder in which the new "projects" inside our Angular project will be created. Yes, we can have projects inside projects. This is something we will learn later.

## projects

This is used for a list of projects that are created in the current workspace, with the name as the key and the configuration as the value.

By default, it will show the key as the name of our Angular project and the value will be its configuration. Since this is the only project we have, this is the only entry in this object.

# PROPERTIES FOR THE INDIVIDUAL PROJECTS INSIDE "projects" OBJECT

## projectType

The type of the project can either be an "application" or a "library". The default is "application". What is the difference?

An "application" can run independently in a browser, while a "library" cannot.

## schematics

These are a set of schematics that customize the "ng generate" command option defaults for this project.

They can automate repetitive tasks and enforce consistent coding standards across your projects.

Schematics are templates that define a set of actions that can be applied to a project. These actions include generating new files, modifying existing files, or updating configuration files. Schematics can be run using the Angular CLI or programmatically using the Schematic Engine API.

For example, we can set all the components to use "scss" by default by doing - 

    "@schematics/angular:component": {
        "style": "scss"
    }

## root

This tells the Angular CLI what is the root folder of the current project.

## sourceRoot

This tells the Angular CLI where the files like index.html, assets, images and the fronts are kept. Since these are in the "src" folder, the value by default is "src" for this property.

## prefix

This is used for setting the "prefix" for the component selectors. By default, it is "app". It means, if you generate a component lets say like this - 

    ng generate shopping-list

Then, the selector will be -

    app-shopping-list

So, it will add the "app-" prefix to all the component selectors.

## architect

And finally, we come to the "architect" property which takes an object as its value.

Angular Architect is a tool in the Angular framework that allows developers to define and execute complex build and deployment processes. A command-line interface (CLI) automates many tasks in creating, testing, and deploying an Angular application.

Angular Architect also provides a set of builders that can be used to perform various tasks, such as building the application, running tests, and deploying the application to multiple environments. These builders can be run using the "ng" command-line tool. For example:

        ng build

## build

You will see that under the "build" property in this object, we have -

    "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application",

This means, when the "ng build" command is run, it will run the builder "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application" for building the application.

In fact, this "build" object has all the configuration for the "ng build" command, not just the builder.

This is not the only builder that we can use. There are four builders that are typically used as "build" targets.

 - @angular-devkit/build-angular:browser -> Bundles a client-side application for use in a browser with "Webpack".
 - @angular-devkit/build-angular:browser-esbuild -> Bundles a client-side application for use in a browser with "esbuild".
 - @angular-devkit/build-angular:application -> Builds an application with a client-side bundle, a Node server, and build-time prerendered routes with "esbuild"
 - @angular-devkit/build-angular:ng-packagr	-> Builds an Angular library adhering to Angular Package Format.

The next property after "builder" is the "options" property. This is used to configure the builder with some extra options.

For example, we say -

    "outputPath": "dist/angular-config",

This means the compiled Angular application will be placed in an output folder named "dist/angular-config".

Then we have "index" and "main" to specify the "index.html" and the "main.ts" files of the Angular project.

The "assets" property is used to configure which files or folders should be copied over to the output folder.

The "styles" property is used to specify which css files, either your own files or third-party ones, should be included in the application by default. This is typically used to add files that have the global application-wide styles. These will then be copied over to the output folder as well.

If you have any scripts, then you can add them in the "scripts" property so that they are also copied over in the output folder. For example, maybe a Google Maps script.

The "configurations" property is used to configure different environments. For example, you can specify some options that are only used in production, while some that are only used in development environment.

For example, you can specify "budgets" which is used to set the size thresholds to ensure that parts of your app stay within the size boundaries that you define.

When you configure a budget, the builder warns or reports an error when a given part of the application reaches or exceeds a boundary size that you set.

So, you can lets say define a new "staging" environment configuration in this "configurations" property and then if you run -

    ng build --configuration=staging

Then, it will use the options that you specify in this "staging" environment configuration.

## serve

Just like the "build" property, we have the "serve" property where we can define options for the "ng serve" command.

For example, we specify a builder as - 

    @angular-devkit/build-angular:dev-server

Using this, whenever we run "ng serve", it will start a new development server.

And then we have the similar "configurations" property as in the "build" property.

## test

We have a similar configuration for the "test" property.

So it also has a "builder" such as "@angular-devkit/build-angular:karma", and also the "options" object where we can specify various options for the "ng test" command.

And that's an overview of the angular.json file.