The "ng add" command is used to add support for an external library to our project. 

Let's understand this using an example.

There is a UI library named "Angular Material" that is developed by Google itself but it is not the part of the Angular framework by default. So, we have to add it to our project if we need it.

If you go to the official page to get started with this library - https://material.angular.io/guide/getting-started

You will see that we have to run the "ng add" command like this - 

    ng add @angular/material

The "ng add" command will install Angular Material, the Component Dev Kit (CDK), Angular Animations and ask you the following questions to determine which features to include:

 - Choose a prebuilt theme name, or "custom" for a custom theme:
 - Set up global Angular Material typography styles
 - Set up browser animations for Angular Material

This command will also perform other things like - 

 - Add project dependencies to package.json
 - Add the Roboto font to your index.html
 - Add the Material Design icon font to your index.html
 - Add a few global CSS styles to:
   - Remove margins from body
   - Set height: 100% on html and body
   - Set Roboto as the default application font

Do only Google's libraries can use "ng add"? No! Other third-party libraries can also be added to the Angular projects using the "ng add" command. The only thing that they need to do is to include certain configuration files in their source code and then, "ng add" will look for those files and if it finds them, it is able to run without any issues. These files actually tell the "ng add" command what to do.

So, you can see that it is not just an alternative to "npm i" command. In the "npm i" command, we are able to install a package but that's pretty much it. This command won't automatically update other files like app.config.ts, angular.json etc.

But, that's not the case with "ng add". It will not only install and add the package in package.json file, but, it will also do other things like updating the app.config.ts, angular.json, index.html, styles.css and so on.

Let's see what "ng add" changed in all these files.

If we go to app.config.ts file , it has this line - 

    export const appConfig: ApplicationConfig = {
        providers: [provideRouter(routes), provideAnimationsAsync()]
    };

We see that it added the "provideAnimationsAsync" function in the providers array. This is to enable animations in the application. It did that because when we ran the "ng add" command, it asked us if we want to include the Angular animations module. And if you chose "Y", then it will make the above change in the app.config.ts file.

Let's check the "angular.json" file now.

We see that the only change it did was to add this in the "styles" array - 

    "@angular/material/prebuilt-themes/deeppurple-amber.css",

It will depend on which theme you selected when you ran "ng add" command. For example, in our project, we selected "Deep Purple/Amber" so, it will add the path for the specific css file in this "styles" array.

If we go to the "index.html" file, we see these two lines added - 

    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css2?family=Roboto:wght@300;400;500&display=swap" rel="stylesheet">
    <link href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/icon?family=Material+Icons" rel="stylesheet">

So, two fonts are also added to the project.

Finally, in the styles.css file, it added this - 

    html, body { height: 100%; }
    body { margin: 0; font-family: Roboto, "Helvetica Neue", sans-serif; }

# HOW DOES ALL THIS WORK UNDER THE HOOD?

As specified above, the "Angular Material" package will have some configuration files that are used by the "ng add" command.

If you go to the official repository of "Angular Material" - https://github.com/angular/components

Inside the src/material/schematics, you will find that there are folders named "ng-add", "ng-update" and "ng-generate".

Let's see what is inside "ng-add" folder. It has various files such as "index.ts", "schema.ts", "schema.json" and so on.

These are all the configuration files that the "ng add" command looks for and that's how in the console, when we run the command, it gives us a lot of steps that we can follow and choose different options.

If you open the "schema.json" -> https://github.com/angular/components/blob/main/src/material/schematics/ng-add/schema.json

You will find all the steps mentioned there, for example, choosing a theme, whether to set up global typography style, and so on.

These are the "Schematic prompts". The prompts are displayed before the execution of the schematic, which then uses the response as the value for the option. 

So, that's the basic idea of schematics in Angular. In a nutshell, a schematic describes how to transform a project's file system step-by-step. You can instruct the schematic to add, modify, or remove multiple files in an existing codebase.