We know what the "ng generate" command does. It is used to generate new components, services, pipes, directives and so on.

How it is able to do that is because Angular CLI has some default blueprints included for generating components, pipes and so on. So, there are already built-in schematics for the "ng generate" command in Angular.

If you go to this page - https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/tree/0154af9afab83131ac8a6f399491ce0207f7bb26/packages/schematics/angular

You will find all the built-in schematics that are provided.

But then again, the third-party packages can also provide their "ng generate" schematics that we can then use.

For example, the "Angular Material" package also provides some "ng generate" schematics -> https://github.com/angular/components/tree/main/src/material/schematics/ng-generate

For example, we can write -

    ng generate @angular/material:nav

And this will create a component that has a responsive sidenav for navigation. 

When this command runs, it will prompt you to enter the name of the component. And once you provide it, it will then geenreate a component with its html, css, ts and spec.ts files.

The benefit is that since we are using a schematic here, it will add some code already in this component to have a sidenav in this component.

Again, you can head over to the official Angular Material github page to know how all this is working under the hood.

If you go to the collection.json file -> https://github.com/angular/components/blob/main/src/material/schematics/collection.json

You will see an entry named "navigation". And you can see that there is an "alises" property -

    "aliases": ["material-nav", "materialNav", "nav"]

This means, even if we had written - 

    ng generate @angular/material:materialNav
    or
    ng generate @angular/material:material-nav

These would've functioned the same way as "ng generate @angular/material:nav".

And this entry also specifies where the "schema.json" file for this schematic is. As we know already, this "schema.json" file will have all the configuration for the prompts that are shown in the console.

Here is the folder that contains all the configuration files for the "navigation" schematic -> https://github.com/angular/components/tree/main/src/material/schematics/ng-generate/navigation

