So, we understood the basics of schematics in Angular. These are used to add or modify things in an Angular project.

There are also something called "Builders" in angular. The "Builders" are simply NodeJS scripts that are executed by Angular CLI to perform things like building the application, running unit tests etc.

While we may be discussing this for the first time, we are using builders all the time in Angular.

We all know about the "ng build" command, right? It is used to build an Angular project so all the ts files are compiled into js and so on.

Under the hood, this "ng build" command uses a builder to do all this.

If you open the "angular.json" file, then under the "architect" object, we have "build" object.

This is where we define which "builder" will be used when "ng build" runs. Again, by "builder", we just mean "script".

    "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application"

So, here, we are using the builder named "application" that is inside the package @angular-devkit/build-angular.

Here is the github repo -> https://github.com/angular/angular-cli/tree/main/packages/angular_devkit/build_angular

As this page shows, the "application" builder will Build an Angular application targeting a browser and server environment using esbuild.

In this page, you will see a file named "builders.json". This file has details of all the builders such as their description, schema, and implementation. And from this file, the Angular CLI will know where to find the implementation for the "application" builder that we are using in our project.

And that's the basic of Builders in Angular.