We know about the "ng build" command that builds the Angular application. But, there is one command that takes it one step further named "ng deploy".

As the name suggests, this command will help to "deploy" your application to a certain provider. Ofcourse it means not all the providers are supported. Only those are supported that have a package that support ng deploy.

But, some popular providers that do support it include - 

    - Firebase -> ng add @angular/fire
    - Vercel -> vercel init angular
    - Netlify -> ng add @netlify-builder/deplo
    - GitHub Pages -> ng add angular-cli-ghpages
    - Amazon Cloud SE -> ng add @jefiozie/ngx-aws-deplo

Let's assume we want to use Firebase to deploy our Angular project.

As the official page shows, the setup command for Firebase is - 

    ng add @angular/fire

So, when we run this command, it will show some prompts that you can respond to.

For example, it will ask what all feature you want to setup. For example, "hosting", "authentication", "google analytics", "firestore" and so on.

Since we just want hosting for now, we can choose that and hit enter.

Now, it will ask you for authentication. So, you need to authenticate using your Google Firebase account. And then, it will show the list of projects that you have.

You can either choose one, or create a new project from the CLI itself.

Then, it will ask you to select a hosting site.So, just select the one that is provided (or if you want you can create new).

And that's pretty much it!

Now, all you need to do is run "ng deploy".

This command will first build the Angular project and then, it will deploy the project and give us the URL that we can then visit to see the project that is hosted on Firebase.

You may get errors in the console while doing all this, maybe due to outdated package or something related to enabling "webframeworks". Just follow the guidelines mentioned in the console to fix the issue.

So, what did the "ng add" command did? Well, it updated some files in our project.

It first created a new file named ".firebasesrc" which has the configuration that is used while deploying to firebase. Then, it also added this file to the ".gitignore" because we do not want to push this file to some remote repo.

It also added a new entry in the "angular.json" file named "deploy". These are the confirations for the "ng deploy" command. So, we can see that builder used is - 

    "builder": "@angular/fire:deploy"

Finally, a new file named "firebase.json" was also added.

And that's how we can use "ng deploy".