When we learned about the "angular.json" file, we talked about a "projects" property which is used to keep track of all the projects that are in the current folder. This means that in one folder, we can have multiple Angular projects, not just one.

Let's say you have already generated a folder for your Angular app. Now, you want to add another Angular project in this same folder. For that, you can use the "ng generate application" or "ng generate library" command.

Note that we use "ng new NAME" to create a new folder for the Angular application. 

In other words, the "ng new NAME" command will create a new workspace with a default Angular application. The "ng generate application" or "ng generate library" will create a new application in the existing workspace.

As the two commands show -

    "ng generate application"
    "ng generate library"

We can either generate a new Angular "application" or a new Angular "library". Let's talk about the "application" first.

Before that, it is a pretty obvious question that why even is this needed? What is the benefit of having multiple Angular projects in one folder?

Well, here are the advantages - 


    - You do not have to run the time consuming npm install for every app.
    - The node_modules folder is shared with all the other apps saving disk space.
    - All the apps can be updated to the next version easily.
    - A single source-control repository (such as git).

Let's say we have a "backend" Angular UI project for the admins. We can generate it in the existing folder by doing -

    ng generate application backend

Now, you will see that Angular CLI will ask the same questions that it asks when we generate a new Angular project using "ng new".

That's because this command is also generating an Angular project too, just in the existing folder.

And once the command runs, you will see that a new folder is added to the existing folder named "projects". And in that projects folder, we have our "backend" folder which has the entire Angular code for the "backend" Angular app. The entire folder structure for "backend" is same so there is the "src" folder, "app" folder, "main.ts", "styles.css" and so on. What it does not have is the "package.json", "angular.json", "tsconfig.json" etc because those are all shared between this project and the default project that was generate initially. That's the advantage we talked about above.

You will also notice that the "angular.json" file is also changed and now, under the "projects" property in this file, we also have the entry for "backend" project.

Now, the question is how to run this project in the browser? Because for the default project, we simply do "ng serve". What about this "backend" project?

Well, we can use a flag with "ng serve" named "project" - 

    ng serve --project=backend

And now, it will server the "backend" project on localhost.

We can even write - 

    ng serve backend

And this will do the same thing as above command.

You may argue that this folder structure is a bit weird where we have a default project, and then another "projects" folder inside it which has other projects.

Well, there is a way to make it cleaner. 

Let's generate a fresh new Angula workspace for that. So, we will use "ng new" for that.

We will use a flag named "create-application" and set it to false. Setting this to false tells ng new not to create the initial Angular application in the Workspace. So, it will create a workspace that has all the files but not the "src" folder. So, there is no default Angular app at all.

And now, whenever we have to generate a new project in this folder, we will use the "ng generate" command. In this way, all the projects will sit inside a single "projects" folder only, making the file structure cleaner.

And that's how we manage multiple Angular projects in the same folder!