Well, we know that apart from the "ng generate application" command, we also have "ng generate library" command.

So, what is the difference between an Angular application and an Angular library?

A library is a collection of components, services, directives etc. that can be shared across different Angular projects.

A library is not meant to run as a Standalone Application like Angular applications. It is meant to have code that can be shared across multiple Angular applications. Unlike an application, a library doesn't generate index.html, styles.css, polyfills.ts, main.ts. These files are specific to deploying an application in the browser. Since a library is simply a collection of reusable components, it doesn't need these files.

An example is the "Angular Material" library. It comes with a lot of built-in components and you can use them in any Angular application.

A library generates a few files that an application doesn't. Let's look at these in more detail.

# ng-package.json

There is a file named "ng-package.json" which is a configuration for the "ng-packagr". What is it? It is a library for packaging Angular projects into a distribution-ready "npm" package.

# package.json

This file is specific to your library and represents the package.json file that will be included with your packaged library. This file tells ng-packagr what dependencies should be included with the package.json file for the packaged library.

# public_api.ts

Inside the "src" folder of the library, there is a "public_api.ts" file. This is something the Angular application does not have.

This is the main entry file for your library. It defines what parts of the library are visible externally.

Whenever you add a new component, service, etc. to your library, you also want to add it to this file so it can be exported at the class level.

# THE STARTING FILES

Inside the "lib" folder, we get some initial files that get generated as soon as generate a new library. So, we have a "component.ts" file, and a "service.ts" file. If you are using older Angular version, you may also find the "module.ts" file but since we are using standalone components, there is no module.ts file in our case.

# The angular.json file

Let's finally take a look at the angular.json file which is at the root of our workspace. You will see a new entry under "projects" for the "my-button" library. So, there is no special "libraries" property here. Everything is inside the "projects" property only.

But, you will see that under the "build" property of the library, the builder is - 

    "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:ng-packagr"

For comparison, for the Angular application, the builder is -

     "builder": "@angular-devkit/build-angular:application"

This points to the major difference between a library and an application. While applications build projects for the browser, libraries build projects with ng-packagr, making them reusable across projects.

It should be mentioned that simply building a library does not make it package ready. Running ng build on a library builds the project and compiles the output to a the dist/ folder.

To actually package the library, you would run something like this - 

    ng build my-button
    cd dist/my-button
    npm publish

But, if you do not want to publish the library to npm but just want to use it in the same workspace, you have to still build it first.

    ng build my-lib

And then, you can use it in the Angular applications - 

    import { myExport } from 'my-lib';


The Angular version used to build an application should always be the same or greater than the Angular versions used to build any of its dependent libraries. For example, if you had a library using Angular version 13, the application that depends on that library should use Angular version 13 or later. Angular does not support using an earlier version for the application.

You can read more about Angular Libraries on the official website -> https://angular.dev/tools/libraries


