NOTE - There are separate folders for Template-Driven and Reactive Forms. 

In our TD Form project, we have a simple form which has just three form fields -> Username, Mail and Secret Questions.

Before we start with using the Template-Driven Form approach, don't forget to import the "FormsModule" in the app.module.ts file.

    import { FormsModule } from '@angular/forms';
    @NgModule({
    declarations: [
        AppComponent
    ],
    imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        FormsModule, <-- HERE
    ],
    providers: [],
    bootstrap: [AppComponent]
    })

This module has all the required providers and directives for the Template-driven Forms in Angular.

Once added, now, if Angular detects the < form > element in the HTML Template, it will automatically create a typescript object for you which is a typescript representation of the form. But, right now, it would be mostly empty because Angular cannot automatically detect what form controls we are using in the form.

So, that's something we have to tell Angular.

And we do that by using the "ngModel" directive.

Yes, this is the same "ngModel" which we used in two-way data binding but here, we won't use it that way.

    <input 
        type="text" 
        id="username" 
        class="form-control"
        ngModel
     >

So, as we can see, we just write "ngModel", without any [()] syntax and without setting any value for it.

And this "ngModel" is actually something the "FormsModule" provides. So far, while we have used it at many places, now we can understand from where it is actually coming.

But now, if we save the code, we see an error on the browser console. It says - 

    If ngModel is used within a form tag, either the name attribute must be set or the form control must be defined as 'standalone' in ngModelOptions.

So, just adding "ngModel" isn't enough. We also have to give our form control a "name" attribute. And this "name" attribute is what Angular then uses to identify this form control in that typescript object representation of the form.

    <input 
        type="text" 
        id="username"
        class="form-control"
        name="username" <- Adding a "name" attribute
        ngModel <- Adding "ngModel" directive
    >


So now, let's say the input has value as "John". In that typescript representation of this form, it will be something like -{ username: "John }.

That's why the "name" attribute is necessary here. The ngModel is just to let Angular know that this is a form control and this needs to be tracked.

And do note that this is not just limited to "input" fields. A form can have a lot of other types of controls. So, we have to do the same for all of them to let Angular track them.

    <select 
        id="secret" 
        class="form-control"
        name="secret"
        ngModel
    >

