So far, we have set up our Template Driven Form by letting Angular know what all form controls are present in our form using the "name" attribute and "ngModel" directive.

Now, how do we submit our form?

You might say that we can add a (click) to the button in our form and then maybe call some method that is present in the .ts file.

But here, there is one thing to note.

    <button class="btn btn-primary" type="submit">Submit</button>

The button in our form is of type "submit". And whenever in HTML there is a button inside a form element which has a type "submit, then, whenever that button gets clicked, the default behavior of the submit button gets invoked. The default behavior is to send a request to the server. 

But ofcourse here, we are not doing that because to make a call to the server, we need to have the "action" attribute set on the form element and also the "method" attribute.

But still, one thing that happens here is that the Javascript "submit" event is emitted when we click the button. If you have worked with HTML Forms, you know that we can handle that event using "onSubmit" attribute on the form element. 

In Angular, we can do something similar but we use "ngSubmit" instead of "onSubmit".

    <form (ngSubmit)="onSubmit()">

But, while this method now gets called every time we click the button to submit, we still don't have access to the form data yet. 

But that's pretty simple to do. We just need to provide a reference variable to our form and then pass that to the onSubmit() method.   

    <form #f (ngSubmit)="onSubmit(f)">

Now, in the onSubmit, if we console.log this data we are getting, we will see that it will print the whole form element in the console.

    onSubmit(f: HTMLFormElement) {
        console.log("Form Submitted!", f);
    }

But that's not what we want, right? We want that "typescript object" representation that we talked about a lot of times above. We want the "object", not the actual HTML element itself.

And here comes the fun part. There is a neat little trick (not really a trick if you understand what is happening) that you can say which we can use here. Instead of just creating a reference variable, we can assign it some value. And this value will be "ngForm". 

    <form #f="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="onSubmit(f)">
    
"ngForm" is a directive in Angular. 

If you go to the gitHub page for this directive's code - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.2.9/packages/forms/src/directives/ng_form.ts

    @Directive({
        selector: 'form:not([ngNoForm]):not([formGroup]),ng-form,[ngForm]',
        providers: [formDirectiveProvider],
        host: {'(submit)': 'onSubmit($event)', '(reset)': 'onReset()'},
        outputs: ['ngSubmit'],
        exportAs: 'ngForm'
    })

You will see that on the @Directive decorator, there is the "exportAs" property. This property defines the name that can be used in the template to assign this directive to a variable.

And that's exactly what we are doing in our form. We are assigning the "ngForm" directive to a variable and we can do that because ngForm directive has the exportAs property set to "ngForm".

So now, all the public properties and methods in ngForm are available for us to use like - submitted, form, ngSubmit, valid, invalid and so on...

If it is still not very clear, read the comments on the github page for this directive.

    As soon as you import the `FormsModule`, this directive becomes active by default on all `<form>` tags.  You don't need to add a special selector.


    You optionally export the directive into a local template variable using `ngForm` as the key (ex: `#myForm="ngForm"`). This is optional, but useful.  Many properties from the underlying `FormGroup` instance are duplicated on the directive itself, so a reference to it  gives you access to the aggregate value and validity status of the form, as well as user interaction properties like `dirty` and `touched`.

 
Coming back to our code,

    <form #f="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="onSubmit(f)">

    onSubmit(f: NgForm) {
        console.log("Form Submitted!", f);
    }

Now, if we console log, we now don't get the HTML Form element printed in console. We get an object of type "NgForm".

This is obvious because now, we are passing "NgForm" type in the onSubmit method, not an "HTMLFormElement" type.

And this object is the one that we have been talking about so far. You will see it has every detail of the form and various methods to get different information about the form.

There is a "value" property which has the object with key value pairs where "key" is the name attribute of the control and the value is the actual value that user has entered. This was the reason why we had to provide a "name" attribute.

    {
        "username": "John",
        "email": "abc@gmail.com",
        "secret": "pet"
    }

