Validations are one of the most important things to take care of while working with Forms.

We don't want user to input some value that shouldn't be a valid value for that input field. For example, someone shouldn't be allowed to enter a mobile number in email field. If the validations are not performed, then that wrong data will get submitted.

Now, UI validation can always be tricked so it is always recommended to do server side validations as well. But, UI validations improve the user experience because they let the user know what type of values are allowed for a field. And if some wrong value is entered, we can show some error message.

Let's do a simple validation for our form. We just want to ensure that none of the input fields are empty when form is submitted.

# ADDING A "REQUIRED" VALIDATOR TO FORM CONTROLS

To make a form control "required", we can simply add an attribute to the form field named "required". In HTML, this is an attribute available for all the form elements to let the browser know that this field is mandatory.

But, in Angular, it works slightly differently.

In Angular "required" is a selector for the "RequiredValidator" directive - https://angular.io/api/forms/RequiredValidator

GitHub - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.2.9/packages/forms/src/directives/validators.ts#L335-L382

So, as soon as we write "required", Angular sees that this is a selector of "RequiredValidator" it makes that control mandatory.

    <input 
        type="email" 
        id="email" 
        class="form-control"
        name="email"
        ngModel
        required
        >

Now, if we submit the form and check the form object, we will see that the "valid" property is false since we did not fill all the input fields now that all the input fields are mandatory.

# ADDING EMAIL VALIDATION

Since we also have an email field, let's also add email validation to it. Because right now, while this field is mandatory, the user can enter anything in it like "adasdasd" "1213424" etc. And all of that will be accepted since we are not checking email format.

For email validation, we can add "email" attribute to the input field and again, this will be a selector to the "EmailValidator"

Github - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.2.9/packages/forms/src/directives/validators.ts#L450-L478

And now, even if we fill all the input fields and enter a mobile number in the email field, it will still have the property "valid" as "false" in the form object. Because, all the validations have not passed. And the same property will also be false for the individual email form control object.

    <input 
        type="email" 
        id="email" 
        class="form-control"
        name="email"
        ngModel
        required
        email
    >

You can check all the built-in validators here -> https://angular.io/api?type=directive

You will see that under "forms" section, we have a lot of directives that are used for form validation, for example, EmailValidator, RequiredValidator, MinLengthValidator, MaxLengthValidator and so on.

# CLASSES THAT ANGULAR ADDS TO FORM CONTROLS

If you right click the email input and see its html code in the browser, you will notice that apart from the "form-control" class that we have given to this field, there are also some extra classes that we have not applied.

    class="form-control ng-invalid ng-dirty ng-touched"

Since these are starting with "ng", it means "Angular" is adding these classes in the form controls. 

Now, the interesting thing is, as we enter some value in the form control, these classes also change depending on the action.

For example, if we have not entered anything, the classes will be 

    class="form-control ng-pristine ng-invalid ng-untouched"

If we click the form control, "untouched" will change to "touched"

    class="form-control ng-pristine ng-invalid ng-touched"

If we enter something, "pristine" will change to "dirty"

    class="form-control ng-dirty ng-invalid ng-touched"

And if we enter a "valid" value, "invalid" will change to "valid"

    class="form-control ng-dirty ng-valid ng-touched"

So, Angular dynamically adds or remove the classes as the input changes. 

And if you think about it, now, we can use these classes to apply styles to our input fields. For example, showing a red border if the field is invalid and so on.

# NATIVE HTML5 VALIDATION

If you have worked with forms in HTML, you know that if some field is marked as required, and we try to submit the form without entering anything in that field, we will see a nice error message saying "Please fill out this field".

Similarly, for email validation, we will see an error message as well.

By default, angular has these HTML5 validations disabled since we usually add error messages of our own. This is the reason why the form element has "novalidate" attribute when we use form in Angular.

But still, if for some reason, we have to enable HTML5 validations, that's pretty simple. We can use "ngNativeValidate" attribute on form element.

    <form ngNativeValidate>
        ...
    </form>

And now, this will enable the native HTML5 validation.