Since we now know that Angular tracks the state of the form and also the state of each form control, let's try to implement something very basic.

We want to "disable" the Submit button if the form is invalid.

And that is very simple. Since we already have the form object stored in the reference variable, we can use a property from this form object named "invalid" to check if the form is invalid. 

    <form #f="ngForm" (ngSubmit)="onSubmit()">

If yes, then we will disable the button. Simple, right?

      <button 
        class="btn btn-primary" 
        type="submit"
        [disabled]="f.invalid"
      >
        Submit
      </button>

And now, the button will remain disabled until the form becomes valid again.

# TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE CSS CLASSES THAT ANGULAR ADDS

We know that Angular adds and removes some css classes dynamically from form controls such as "ng-pristine", "ng-dirty" etc.

So, let's take advantage of those classes.

For example, if some form control has "ng-invalid" class then we can add a red border. 

    .ng-invalid {
        border: 1px solid red;
    }

But, this will apply a red border to not just the form controls but even the whole form because if you see the code in the browser, the form element also has "ng-invalid" classe applied.

So for now, we want to only add it to the inputs or select in our form. That we can do by - 

    input.ng-invalid, select.ng-invalid{
        border: 1px solid red;
    }

But now, there is another issue. When the page gets loaded, then the input and select fields are already red. We did not even touch them yet or added anything in them.

That's because initially, the fields have no value so they are all invalid. And as per our css rule, if there is "ng-invalid" class, then apply a red border.

So, we also need to make sure that we only apply this red border when user enters some value. In other words, when "ng-dirty" class is also present.

    input.ng-invalid.ng-dirty, select.ng-invalid.ng-dirty{
       border: 1px solid red;
    }

Similarly, if we want to apply this red border as soon as user clicks the input or select field, then we can use "ng-touched" class -

    input.ng-invalid.ng-touched, select.ng-invalid.ng-touched{
        border: 1px solid red;
    }

# ADDING ERROR MESSAGES

Now that we are adding a red border to the input and select fields on an invalid input, we can also take advantage of this form state to show error messages.

Let's say when a user enters a wrong email address, we want to show an error message saying the same. 

We can again make use of the reference variable. We know that the form object has "controls" property which has each form control and its state. So, we can use the "invalid" and "dirty" properties from that state to show an error message.

    <p 
      *ngIf="f.controls.email.invalid && f.controls.email.dirty" 
      class="text-danger"
    >
       Please enter a valid email address!
    </p>

But, there is another way to access the state of a control.

We can do a similar thing that we did on form element by assigning a directive to a reference variable.

On our input field, we are already using ngModel directive and this ngModel directive also has all the details of the form on which it is applied. So, it is not only used for 2-way data binding.

To check all the data that it has for a form, let's create a new reference variable and assign it to "ngModel".

Let's also have a "click" handler that calls a print method which prints this reference variable in the console. This is just to see all the data that this "ngModel" directive has.

    <input 
        type="email" 
        id="email" 
        class="form-control"
        name="email"
        ngModel
        required
        email
        #email="ngModel"
        (click)="print(email)"
        >

When you click on the field, you can see that the data it outputs is kind of similar to what we saw when we console logged data of "NgForm".

It has properties like "dirty", "invalid", "valid", "touched" and so on.

So, we can now use these properties now that we have access to them in our reference variable.

    <p 
        *ngIf="email.invalid && email.dirty" 
        class="text-danger"
    >
        Please enter a valid email address!
    </p>

And you can see that now, the code is lesser than before. Since we don't have to do "form.controls.email.something". 

Again, the reason we are able to assign "ngModel" to a reference variable is because if you check the github code of ngModel directive, you will see it has "exportAs" property in the decorator as "ngModel". As we know, "exportAs" Defines the name that can be used in the template to assign this directive to a variable.


You will also see that inside ngModel directive file on gitHub, we don't have any of the properties like dirty, touched, pristine etc. 

    NgModel - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/forms/src/directives/ng_model.ts
    NgControl - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/forms/src/directives/ng_control.ts
    AbstractControlDirective - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/forms/src/directives/abstract_control_directive.ts

But the reason why we can access them is because "ngModel" directive class extends "NgControl" class, which in turn extends the "AbstractControlDirective " class.

The "NgControl" class is the base class that all the "FormControl" based directives extend. And "NgModel" is one such directive which extends this class.

The "AbstractControlDirective" is the "base" class of the control directives.

So now it all makes sense, right?

# SHOWING DIFFERENT ERROR MESSAGES FOR DIFFERENT VALIDATORS

Now, one thing that you can also do is to show different error messages on different validations.

For example, "email" field has two validators on it - required and email.

So, if the field has been touched but nothing is entered, then required validation will fail. So we show some error message.

But, if something is entered in it, then while the required validation will pass, the email validation might fail if it is not a valid email format.

So, for this case, we want to show a different error message.

For that, we have an "errors" object which has the name of the validator as the key and a boolean flag as its value to show whether this validation passed or failed.


    <p *ngIf="email.invalid && email.dirty" class="text-danger">
        <!-- If "required" validation fails -->
        <span *ngIf="email.errors?.['required']">
            Please enter an email!
        </span>

        <!-- If "email" validation fails -->
        <span *ngIf="email.errors?.['email']">
            Please enter a valid email!
        </span>
    </p>