It would be nice if our "question" and "answer" fields are part of the same group. And the "email" and "username" are part of a separate group.

Because, ideally, in a real world application with big forms, we have groups. 

For example, imagine a form with "Address" section which has different fields in it like "street", "city", "state", "pin code" etc.

All these are part of the same "Address" group. 

Yes, we can do that in Angular in the template-driven forms.

We can wrap the form controls that we want to group in one div and then use one directive on them named "ngModelGroup".

    <div id="user-data" ngModelGroup>
        // The input fields we want to group are inside this div
    </div>

So now, if you console log the form data on submission, you will see that under "value" property, we no longer have key value pairs only.

In fact, the first entry in this Object is another object which has "username" and "email" entries. It means, these two form controls are now part of the same group.

    {
    "": {
        "username": "John",
        "email": "socej39064@tutoreve.com"
        },
    "secret": "pet",
    "questionAnswer": ""
    }

But here, as you can see, this group does not have any name, hence an "empty string" as the key. We can add a name to this by assigning a string value to the "ngModelGroup" directive.

    <div id="user-data" ngModelGroup="userData">
        // The input fields we want to group are inside this div
    </div>

And now, the "value" property will be like this - 

    {
        "userData": {
            "username": "Jhn",
            "email": "socej39064@tutoreve.com"
        },
        "secret": "pet",
        "questionAnswer": ""
    }

So, username and email form controls are now part of the same group named "userData".

To understand it even better, check the "controls" property of the form object.

You will see that while "questionAnswer" and "secret" fields are of type "FormControl", the "userData" group is of type "FormGroup".

Also, our whole form is also of type "FormGroup".

This means, we now have a "FormGroup" nested inside another "FormGroup". And this means, this nested "FormGroup" can now be tracked separately if we want to.

And again, we can do the same thing for that. We can assign "ngModelGroup" to a local reference variable that is present in the element which has "ngModelGroup" directive.

NOTE that we are not assigning "ngForm" but rather "ngModelGroup" to this reference variable. We cannot even assign "ngForm" here to a reference variable because this enclosing element is a div not a form. And as we know, "ngForm" has a selector as "form", not a "div". So, it will show an error instantly as we write it.

    <div 
        #userData="ngModelGroup" 
        id="user-data" 
        ngModelGroup="userData"
    >

Again, we can use @ViewChild to access this form object.

    @ViewChild('userData')
    userDataGroup : NgModelGroup;