Apart from the Input fields and Dropdowns, there are other form controls as well. While there are a lot of them, one common control is the "Radio Button".

Let's see how we can add Radio Buttons and handle them using Template Driven Forms.

In plain HTML, it is simple to add a radio button.

We simply need to add an input field with "type" attribute set to "radio". And one thing to note is the "name" attribute because this needs to be the same for all the different options that a user can select. This ensures that at one time, only one option is selectable.


Since we are using bootstrap, we can add a radio button with this pattern - 

    <div class="radio">
    <label>
        <input type="radio" name="abc" checked>Option 1
    </label>
    </div>

This will be one single radio button.

So, to add 2, we need to replicate this code twice.

    <div class="radio">
    <label>
        <input type="radio" name="abc" checked>Option 1
    </label>
    </div>

    <div class="radio">
    <label>
        <input type="radio" name="abc" checked>Option 2
    </label>
    </div>

Note how the name attribute does not change for different options.

So, in our Angular app, let's define some options for the radio buttons in the .ts file. We will add radio buttons to select the gender - Male or Female.

So, in the .ts file, we will add these two options - 

    genders = ['male', 'female'];

Now, in our HTML, we can place these radio buttons inside the form. One perfect place to place them is inside the "userData" group that we have created as it makes sense.

    <div class="radio" *ngFor="let gender of genders">
        <label>
            <input
                type="radio"
                name="gender"
                ngModel
                [value]="gender"
            >
        {{gender}}
        </label>
    </div>

Note how we are using the same pattern to add ratio buttons as discussed above, just that we are not manually replicating but rather using the ngFor directive to loop over the options and add a radio button for each option.

Also, since we want to register this form control in the form object, we added "ngModel" directive to the input field as well.

And finally, we used property binding to bind the option in .ts file with the radio button.

And well, that's how we can add Radio buttons in Template-driven forms. The rest is the same as for other form controls when we talk about fetching the data through the form object.

And ofcourse, we can add the validations to it as well. For example, the "required" validation using the "required" directive.