In our form, we have a button saying "Suggest a Username". We want to populate the username field automatically with some value when the user clicks it.

And for that, we have to learn how we can "set" form control values programmatically.

Ofcourse we can create some property and two-way data bind it with the username field and then on button click set some value on that property. And it will work.

But, there is one better approach by directly using the form object.

And this is a good use case of having access to form object using @ViewChild. Because here, we want to access this object before we submit the form. So, that's why we use @ViewChild.

So, when we click the button, the suggestUserName() method gets called.

Now, we can get hold of the "signupForm" that we have using @ViewChild and on that, we have one method available named "setValue".

At first, you might think that this is used to set a value of a form control. But no. This is used to set a value of the whole form.

That is, we have to manually set value of each form control when we use this method.

    suggestUserName() {
        const suggestedName = 'Superuser';
        this.signupForm.setValue({
        userData: {
            username: suggestedName,
            email: '',
            gender: ''
        },
        secret: 'pet',
        questionAnswer: ''
        })
  }

If you skip even a single form control value, then it will throw an error in the console saying - 

    Must supply a value for form control with name: '<name of form control>'

So, to change value of a single control, this is definitely not a great option. Moreover, imagine if user has filled all the form already and then clicks on this button. It will then set the form controls to what we have set in the code which is not a good user experience.

This could be a good option for cases where we might want to pre-populate the form with some data when page loads. Maybe in case of an edit flow or something.

There is another method named "patchValue" that we can use. But, it is not available on the NgForm directly.  We have to access it from the "form" object inside NgForm. Here is how we do it - 

    suggestUserName() {
    const suggestedName = 'Superuser';

    this.signupForm.form.patchValue({
      userData: {
        username: suggestedName
      }
    })
  }

So now, instead of having to pass the whole form data, we just have to set the value of that one single form control which we want to update.

Do note that since username is inside a group named "userData", we cannot directly do -

    this.signupForm.form.patchValue({
      username: suggestedName <- WON'T WORK
    })

We have to also mention the group that it is inside of form controls in template driven forms.

That's by accessing the form control itself and then use "setValue" on that.

We can access the "controls" object of NgForm and on that, we can use the "setValue" on that particular form control itself.

    this.signupForm.controls["questionAnswer"].setValue("Something");

Since our "username" field is inside a group, the code will become a bit lenghty -

    suggestUserName() {
      const suggestedName = 'Superuser';
      (this.signupForm.controls["userData"] as FormGroup).controls["username"].setValue(suggestedName);;
    }

So, we are first getting access to the "userData" object which is of type "FormGroup". And on that, we are accessing the "controls" object which lets us use "setValue" method on "username".

Instead of making things complicated, let's use @ViewChild to access this "userData" group.

        <div 
          #userData="ngModelGroup" 
          id="user-data" 
          ngModelGroup="userData"
        >

And now, we can say - 

    suggestUserName() {
        const suggestedName = 'Superuser';
        this.userDataGroup.control.controls["username"].setValue(suggestedName);
    }

When you console log the "userDataGroup" you can see what all properties and object we have. So, in that, you can see that there is a "control" object which in turn has "controls" object which has all the controls in this group. That's why we did "control.controls".