There are some built-in validators that Angular provides such as "RequiredValidator", "EmailValidator", "MinLengthValidator" and so on. These are all Directives.

And to use them, we just have to use them on form controls by their selectors. For example "required", "email", "minLength".

But, sometimes, we want to add custom validations to a form control.

For example, in our project, we have a form control named "username". Let's say we don't want the user to add "admin" as a username in this field. Note that there is a built-in "pattern" validator where we can use a regex but for now, just imagine we want to have a custom validator that will now allow "admin" username.

Just like built-in validators, the custom validator is also a "Directive".

First, we create a directive file.

    ng g d forbiddenName

So, our directive is named "forbiddenName"

Now, Angular will automatically create a directive.ts file where the selector is "appForbiddenName" which we can use as an attribute on any element. We can change it to our liking. Let's name it "forbiddenName".

    @Directive({
        selector: '[forbiddenName]'
    })
    export class ForbiddenNameDirective {}

At this point, while we have created a directive, Angular just treats it as a normal directive. But, we want to let Angular know that this will be used a Validator.

For that, we have to register it in "Angular Providers" metadata.

We do that using the "providers" property in the @Directive decorator.

    @Directive({
        selector: '[forbiddenName]',
        providers: [{provide: NG_VALIDATORS, useExisting: ForbiddenNameDirective, multi: true}]
    })

Here, in the "providers" property, we pass an object.

Check this page - https://angular.io/api/forms/NG_VALIDATORS

It says that the "NG_VALIDATORS" is an "Injection Token" to register additional "Synchronous validators" used with Form Controls.

So basically, to the existing collection of validators, we are registering our custom validator directive. When we add a validator to the existing collection, we have to set "multi" property to "true". 

Why? Because without it, it will override all the previously existing validators. But when we do "mutli: true" it means just add it to previously registered directives instead of overriding.

Now that we have done this, this directive needs to implement the "Validator" interface from @angular/forms. This forces it to implement a "validate()" method which every validator directive needs to have.

    export class ForbiddenNameDirective implements Validator {
        constructor() { }

        validate(control: AbstractControl<any, any>): ValidationErrors {
            throw new Error('Method not implemented.');
        }
    }

Now, we can see that the "validate()" method takes an argument of type "control" which is basically the reference to the form control on which we apply this validator.

So now, we can get access to the value of the form control on which we apply this validator.

As you can see above, the return type is "ValidationErrors" which is a simple object with key as string and the value of any type. 

Basically, we define a broken rule. There is no rule of what the value should be but generally it is a boolean set to "true".

    validate(control: AbstractControl<any, any>): ValidationErrors {

        if (control.value === "admin") {
        return {"forbiddenName": true}
        }

        return null;
    }

So, here we are doing a simple check that if the value of the control is "admin" then it is not allowed so return a "ValidationErrors" object with broken rule being "forbiddenName". The name can be anything but this same name will be used in the HTML if we want to check if a control passed this validation or not.


# USING THE CUSTOM VALIDATOR

Now that we have our custom validator created, let's use it in our HTML file on our form.

So, we will add it to username field.

    <input 
        type="text" 
        id="username"
        class="form-control"
        name="username" 
        ngModel
        required
        forbiddenName
        #username="ngModel"
    >

And now, we can add an error message when this validation fails. And this is same as how we do it for built-in validators.

    <p class="text-danger" *ngIf="username.invalid && username.touched">

        <!-- Required Validation Fails -->
        <span *ngIf="username.errors?.['required']">
            Please Enter a Username
        </span>

        <!-- Forbidden Name Validation Fails -->
        <span *ngIf="username.errors?.['forbiddenName']">
            Username cannot be "admin"
        </span>
    </p>


Note that here, we are using the name "forbiddenName" that we had passed in the object when we returned it in validator directive. This is the "broken rule" we pass as key to that object.

And that's how we can add custom validators to Template Driven Forms.

Please note that there is no limitation of how many key value pairs we can pass to the "ValidationErrors" object we return. In fact, let's just do that. Let's have a second value as "notAllowed" which has value as "admin". 

    validate(control: AbstractControl<any, any>): ValidationErrors {

        if (control.value === "admin") {
        return {"forbiddenName": true, "notAllowed": "admin"}
        }

        return null;
    }

And now, in the HTML, apart from this broken rule "forbiddenName" we can also access "notAllowed". 


    <span *ngIf="username.errors?.['forbiddenName']">
        Username cannot be {{username.errors?.['notAllowed']}}
    </span>

You might think that it makes no sense here.

But, let's just say we want to dynamically set the name that is not allowed as username. So, it can be anything and will be passed from outside.

Since a custom validator is just a directive, we can use @Input on it.

    @Input('forbiddenName')
    invalidName: string;

Since it is possible that the input is not passed from outside, let's also add a default value in tha case in ngOnInit.

    ngOnInit(){
        // Default value as "admin" if not passed from outside
        if (!this.invalidName) this.invalidName = "admin";
    }

And the validator method now becomes - 

    validate(control: AbstractControl<any, any>): ValidationErrors {

        if (control.value === this.invalidName) {
        return {"forbiddenName": true, "notAllowed": this.invalidName}
        }

        return null;
  }

And now, our validator is a dynamic validator.

    <input 
        type="text" 
        id="username"
        class="form-control"
        name="username" 
        ngModel
        required
        forbiddenName="john"
        #username="ngModel"
    >

In above code, "john" is an invalid name so if we enter "john" in input field, it will throw an error.

We did not need to change the error message block as it remains same as before.

    <span *ngIf="username.errors?.['forbiddenName']">
        Username cannot be {{username.errors?.['notAllowed']}}
    </span>