A cross-field validator is a custom validator that compares the values of different fields in a form and accepts or rejects them in combination. 

For example, let's say that in our form, we have a field for "Name" as well. And we want that the username should not be the same as the name. This is a perfect case where we have to do cross field validation. We have to compare values of two different fields. 

Let's add a new "name" field - 

            <label for="name">Your Name</label>
            <input 
              type="text" 
              id="name"
              class="form-control"
              name="name" 
              ngModel
              required
              #name="ngModel"
            >

So, we can create a new validator by creating a new directive, let's name the file "cross-field-validator.directive.ts". There won't be anything special in this validator that we have not done before. The only thing that is going to change is where we will put this validator directive.

    Directive({
        selector: '[crossFieldValidator]',
        providers: [{provide: NG_VALIDATORS, useExisting: CrossFieldValidatorDirective, multi: true}],
        standalone: false
    })
    export class CrossFieldValidatorDirective implements Validator {

        constructor() { }
    
        /**
        * Validate that the name is not the same as username
        */
        validate(control: AbstractControl): ValidationErrors | null {
            return null;
        }

    }

Previously, we were placing the directive on the input fields that we want to validate. But now, we want this directive to be placed somewhere from where we can access both the "name" and "username" fields. We know that the "name" and "username" fields are both part of the "userData" form group. And if we put our directive on this form group, we can easily access the "name" and "username" fields and their values. And well, that's exactly what we will do.

So, our "formGroup" div will now have this validator on it -

    <div 
        #userData="ngModelGroup" 
        id="user-data" 
        ngModelGroup="userData"
        crossFieldValidator
    >

And now, it's time to write the logic to validate the fields. Since we will get getting a "FormGroup" instance as the input to the validate function, we can update the function and its types -

    validate(form: FormGroup): ValidationErrors | null {...}

This won't cause any issues because "FormGroup" under the hood extends "AbstractControl".

And now, we simply write the validation logic -

    validate(form: FormGroup): ValidationErrors | null {
        const name = form.get('name');
        const username = form.get('username');

        if(name && username && name.value && username.value && name.value == username.value) {
            return { "nameSameAsUsername": true }
        }

        return null;
    }

And finally, we can show an error message if the validation fails -

    <p class="text-danger" *ngIf="userData.hasError('nameSameAsUsername')">
        Name cannot be same as the username!
    </p>

And that's how we can do cross-field validation in Template Driven Forms.