So far, we have learnt how we can use some built in validators in Angular's Template Driven forms and also how can we built our own custom validators. When we define our custom validators, we create a new 'Directive' and write this in its "providers" array -

    providers: [{provide: NG_VALIDATORS, useExisting: ForbiddenNameDirective, multi: true}],

If you hover over the "NG_VALIDATORS" then the IDE will probably say - "An InjectionToken for registering additional synchronous validators.". The important thing to note here is "Synchronous".

As the name suggests, the "Synchronous" validators are the ones that execute immediately and return the validation result directly. But, that's not always what we want.

Let's say we have an input field for the username. And when the user enters a username value in it, we want to check our database to ensure that there is no existing user with the same username. We want to ensure there is only one user with a specific username.

Well, we need to make a call to the database to check if a specific username exists or not and that will be an asynchronous operation. And in such cases, we cannot use Synchronous validators because they return the result immediately.

And that's where we have the concept of "Asynchronous Validators". Angular will wait for these to complete and that's why, as their return value, they return an "Observable" or "Promise".

So, how do we create an Asynchronous Validator for our Template Driven forms?

Well, just like how we created a new directive that implements the "Validator" interface for our custom synchronous validators, we will now create a directive that implements the "AsyncValidator" interface.

Let's create a new directive named "validate-username" - 

    ng g d validate-username

And we will implement the "AsyncValidator" interface. When we implement this interface, our class is required to provide an implementation of the "validate" method.

    @Directive({
        selector: '[validateUsername]'
    })
    export class ValidateUsernameDirective implements AsyncValidator {

        constructor() { }
        
        validate(control: AbstractControl): Promise<ValidationErrors | null> | Observable<ValidationErrors | null> {
            throw new Error('Method not implemented.');
        }

    }

You can see that the "validate" method does not return the result directly. It either returns a "Promise" or an "Observable". But this is not enough yet. We also need to register this validator in the existing Asynchronous Validators list. And we do that in the following way -

    @Directive({
        selector: '[validateUsername]',
        providers: [
            {
            provide: NG_ASYNC_VALIDATORS,
            useExisting: ValidateUsernameDirective,
            multi: true,
            },
        ],
    })

Remember that in case of custom synchronous validators, we did the same thing, except that we used "NG_VALIDATORS" as the value for "provide". Here, we are using "NG_ASYNC_VALIDATORS".

Just to simulate some api call, let's return a new observable in the validate function that completes after some time - 

    validate(control: AbstractControl): Promise<ValidationErrors | null> | Observable<ValidationErrors | null> {
        return new Observable(observer => {
            setTimeout(() => {
                if (control.value === "admin") {
                    observer.next({'validateUsername': true})
                } else {
                    observer.next(null);
                }
                observer.complete();
            },1500)
        })
    }

We can also make the code shorter using rxjs pipes and operators. So, we can do -

    validate(control: AbstractControl): Promise<ValidationErrors | null> | Observable<ValidationErrors | null> {
    return of(control.value)
            .pipe(
              map(val => val === "admin" ? {'validateUsername': true} : null),
              delay(1500)
            )
    }

And now, let's use this validator on the username field -

    <input 
        type="text" 
        id="username"
        class="form-control"
        name="username" 
        ngModel
        required
        forbiddenName="john"
        #username="ngModel"
        validateUsername
    >

Open the browser and inspect the input field and keep an eye on the "class" property and its value. As you start typing, a class named "ng-pending" will be added and after 1.5 seconds, this class will either we changed to "ng-invalid" or "ng-valid", depending on whether all the validators passed or not. In our case, if we enter "admin" then our username validator will return an error object. And that's why, if you enter "admin", then the class will be "ng-invalid". This "ng-pending" class is added between the time that the validator takes to return some data back.

Now, you might've also noticed that Asynchronous Validators by default will fire on each key stroke so it is important to handle their performance efficiently. 

Angular lets you configure when the validators will work. By default, they will run on each form value change but you can make them run only when the input field is blurred. For that, you need to set a property on that specific form control named "ngModelOptions" that takes an object and in that object, you can specify the "updateOn" property - 
    
    <input
        validateUsername
        [ngModelOptions]="{updateOn: 'blur'}"
    >

Now, the validators won't be executed immediately as you type some value. They will only execute once you click out of the input field (blur). You can also set the value of "updateOn" to "submit" which means the validators will fire only when the form is submitted.

But, let's say we want to execute validators on input value change but only in case of our username validator, we want the async validation to get triggered after some delay. Well, we can change our validation logic slightly to this -

    validate(control: AbstractControl): Promise<ValidationErrors | null> | Observable<ValidationErrors | null> {
        return timer(500).pipe(
            switchMap(() => {
                return of(control.value)
                    .pipe(
                        map(val => {
                            console.log("Map Called")
                            return val === "admin" ? {'validateUsername': true} : null
                        }
                    ),
                        delay(1500)
                    )
            }))
    }

So here, timer(500) ensures that the observable is returned only after "500" milliseconds.

But this does not mean that the call to the "validate" function of this async validator will be delayed as well. It will still be called on each key press. It is all about how "timer" and "switchMap" are doing their magic.

For each keystroke, Angular will wait 500 milliseconds before starting the validation. If a new keystroke occurs before the 500 milliseconds expire, the previous validation is canceled due to switchMap. So, switchMap Ensures that only the latest value is validated. Any previous observables from earlier keystrokes are unsubscribed.

So, let's say user enters "admin". 

When user types each character ("a", "d", "m", "i", "n"), the form control's value changes, and Angular will trigger the async validator each time. But unless there is a delay of 500ms before any two characters are typed, this validator will not fire. Therefore, only the final input ("admin") will be validated if the user types quickly enough (within 500ms of each character).

Let's say we want to let user know that some background call is happening to validate the username. Here, we can make use of the classes that angular adds to the form control in case of Async Validators.

Since we know that there is a "pending" state added to the form control when an async validator is executing, then we can show some message or loader on the ui -

    <span class="text-warning" *ngIf="username.pending">
        Checking if username is unique or not...
    </span>

And similarly, we can show an error in case the async validator fails - 

    <span *ngIf="username.errors?.['validateUsername']">
        This username is already taken. Please enter a different username!
    </span>

And that's how we use Async Validators in Angular's template driven forms.