One of the most common things in a web application is "Authentication". That is, to let the users sign up and log in to the web application before accessing certain parts of the app.

So, in this module, we will learn how to add authentication to a web application and how to protect certain routes.

# HOW AUTHENTICATION WORKS?

To understand how authentication works under the hood, let's first understand how a typical web application works.

We have two main parts - Client & Server.

When the user enters the credentials like email and password, then this authentication data is sent to the "Server" which then validates that data. It is not a good idea to do all those validations on the client side because it is not difficult to see the underlying Javascript code of a web application in a browser.

Now, in a Traditional Web App, the "Server" will return the HTML pages that would then be rendered on the browser. So in that case, we work with something called a "Session".

But with Angular, we build "Single Page Applications" or "SPAs" and this means the different pages that we visit are all handled on the client side by Angular itself.

For Angular apps, like for other SPAs, we only need a static server which serves the whole app initially, and then the server is out of the game; everything is handled in the browser.

A different server which manages requests to a RESTful API doesn't know anything about the state of our app (e.g. which subpage is currently displayed, which data are loaded, whether the user is logged in etc.). So there is no server which could manage a session.

So, in Angular, what we instead do is we send the user credentials to the Server which then validates them and then returns back something called a "TOKEN", typically known as a "Json Web Token" or "JWT". This "Token" is generated on the server with a certain algorithm which only the server knows. And so, only the server knows the validity of those tokens.

And now, whenever some request is made to the server, that token is also sent along with the request so that the server can check if the token is valid or not. If it is not valid, that request is not served and the server will return an Unauthorized Error.