The first thing to implement Authentication in any web app is to have a Login or Sign Up page where the users can authenticate.

So, in our project, we have an "Auth" component which is used for both Signing In and Signing Up the users.

Since we have just two input fields, we can simply use a Template-driven form here.

And once everything is set up, we can now look forward to sending the details entered by the user to some Backend server which will then authenticate the user.

Now, it is worth mentioning that authentication can be implemented in any type of Backend, whether it is something you created or some other service like Firebase. All that the backend needs to have is an endpoint through which you can send the credentials and create new users or authenticate the existing users and get back the token.

In our project, we are using Firebase. 

First thing we can do is to set up a Rule in our database that only the authenticated users can make the read and write requests from the Application to the firebase database. 

So, we will change the Rules to -

    {
        "rules": {
            ".read": "auth != null",
            ".write": "auth != null",
        }
    }

Now you will see that if you try to fetch recipes or make any firebase api calls, it will return 401 unauthozied because we are not authenticated now.

In Firebase, we can simply choose "Authentication" from left sidesheet and then select the "Email/Password" as the method. And that's it.

Now, we can make requests to some special endpoints that Firebase offers to create users and also the log the users in. And you can see all the created users on your firebase dashboard as well.