The first step is to use the Firebase API to make a call to create a user once the Authentication Form is submitted.

You can easily find the Firebase Rest API documentation online. Here is the documentation for the Authentication Rest API - https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rest/auth

On that page, you will find one section called "Sign up with email/password" - https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rest/auth#section-create-email-password

And that's exactly what we are looking for.

In that, it says -

    You can create a new email and password user by issuing an HTTP POST request to the Auth signupNewUser endpoint.

So, in that section, it gives us the endpoint to which we need to make a POST request.

This endpoint looks something like this -

    https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com/v1/accounts:signUp?key=[API_KEY]


And since in a POST request, we need to pass a body as well, Fireabse also mentions the request body that we need to send. 

So, we need to send three properties in the body object -> email, password and "returnSecureToken" (which should always be True).

As the name shows "returnSecureToken" will return a token that we can then use to validate the users and let the users access various pages on our application.

As a response, we will get a few things such as - 

    idToken -> Firebase Auth ID Token for the User
    email - Email of the newly created user
    refreshToken - A Firebase Auth Refresh Token for the newly created user
    expiresIn - The number of seconds in which the ID Token expires
    localId - The user id of the newly created user

The documentation also shows what all error messages we can get. So, we can get the following error codes - 

    EMAIL_EXISTS: The email address is already in use by another account.
    OPERATION_NOT_ALLOWED: Password sign-in is disabled for this project.
    TOO_MANY_ATTEMPTS_TRY_LATER: We have blocked all requests from this device due to unusual activity. Try again later.


# CREATING A NEW AUTH SERVICE

Now that we are clear on how can we use Firebase Authentication API, let's create a new Auth Service to take care of all the authentication work.

Now, note that the URL to which you have to send a POST request looks something like -> 

    https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com/v1/accounts:signUp?key=[API_KEY]

Here, you need to provide your "API_Key" which you can get from the Firebase Console -> Project Settings -> Web Api Key

So, just copy that and replace it with your API key in the URL.

And now, as we know, we also need to send a request body when we make the POST request. This body should have three properties - "email", "password", and "returnSecureToken".

    signup(email: string, password: string) {
        const url = `https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com/v1/accounts:signUp?key=${this.apiKey}`

        // Make a Post Request
        return this.http.post(url, {
            email,
            password,
            returnSecureToken: true
        })
    }


Now that our service is created, now, we can use this new method inside the Login/Signup page that we have created.