Now that our service is set up, it's time to make the API call when the button is clicked on the Signup page.

When we click the button, we can simply use this service as - 


    this.authService.signup(email,password).subscribe({
            next: data => {
                console.log("User Created. Data is", data)
            },
            error: error => {
                console.log("Error is", error)
            }
            })

We can ofcourse add extra checks like only if we have "email" and "password" then make the request because it is possible that user is able to disable validations on browser using inspect element and other techniques. 

Since the request takes a couple of seconds, we can add a loading spinner as well so that the user knows that something is going on.

    <button [disabled]="authForm.invalid" class="btn btn-primary w-100">
            <span *ngIf="requestInProgress" class="spinner-border spinner-border-sm" aria-hidden="true"></span>

            <span *ngIf="!requestInProgress">
                {{ isLoginMode ? 'Log In' : 'Sign Up'}}
            </span>
    </button>

And finally, we can also show error messages if signup fails for some reason.

A good place to handle errors would be in the Auth Service itself so we can use "pipe()" and "catchError" to take the error object and maybe just return the error message.

    return this.http.post<AuthResponse>(url, {
        email,
        password,
        returnSecureToken: true
        }).pipe(catchError(error => {

        let errorMessage = "An Error Occured. Please try again!"

        if(!error.error || !error.error.error){
            return throwError(() => errorMessage)
        }

        switch(error.error.error.message) {
            case 'EMAIL_EXISTS':
                errorMessage = "The email address is already in use by another account."
                break
            case 'TOO_MANY_ATTEMPTS_TRY_LATER':
                errorMessage = "We have blocked all requests from this device due to unusual activity. Try again later."
                break
            default:
                errorMessage = "Sign up failed"
                break;
        }

        return throwError(() => errorMessage)

        })
    );