Now that we have implemented the Sign Up functionality, we should also take care of the "Log In" functionality.

It is possible that a user already has an account so the user can simply login to that existing account. If we keep using the same Sign Up endpoint, then we will keep getting an error that the user already exists.

So, in case of a Log In attempt, we should make a Login Request as well.

Again, we can go to the Firebase Documentation to get more details on how to send a Sign In request -> https://firebase.google.com/docs/reference/rest/auth#section-sign-in-email-password


The endpoint will look like -> https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com/v1/accounts:signInWithPassword?key=[API_KEY]

The request Body that we need to send is the same as what we sent for the Sign Up request. That is, it will have three fields -> "emai", "password" and "returnSecureToken".

As a response, we will get a few fields - 

    idToken (string) - A Firebase Auth ID token for the authenticated user.
    email (string) - The email for the authenticated user.
    refreshToken (string) - A Firebase Auth refresh token for the authenticated user.
    expiresIn (string) - The number of seconds in which the ID token expires.
    localId (string) - The uid of the authenticated user.
    registered (boolean) - Whether the email is for an existing account.

And so, now that we have all these details, we can add a new method in our Auth Service that will make a call to this Login endpoint.

Note that in case of Login request, we may get different error codes, all of which are mentioned in the official documentation. Some common ones are EMAIL_NOT_FOUND, INVALID_PASSWORD and USER_DISABLED.

    return this.http.post<AuthResponse>(url, {
        email,
        password,
        returnSecureToken: true
        }).pipe(catchError(error => {

        let errorMessage = "An Error Occured. Please try again!"

        if(!error.error || !error.error.error){
            return throwError(() => errorMessage)
        }

        switch(error.error.error.message) {
            case 'EMAIL_NOT_FOUND':
                errorMessage = "There is no user corresponding to this email address. Either the user does not exist or may have been deleted!"
                break
            case 'INVALID_PASSWORD':
                errorMessage = "The password is wrong. Please check the password and try again!"
                break
            case 'USER_DISABLED':
                errorMessage = "This user account has been disabled!"
                break
            default:
                errorMessage = User does not exist!"
                break;
        }

        return throwError(() => errorMessage)

        })
    );

And finally, we can now use this method in the Auth Component when a Login Request has to be made.

# REDUCING CODE DUPLICATION

At this point, some code in the Auth Service is duplicate. For example, when we use "catchError" we do the same thing in both signup and login methods, just that the error codes might be different. So instead, we can have a separate method which simply checks the error code and returns an error message.


    private errorHandler(error: HttpErrorResponse) {

        if(!error.error || !error.error.error){
        return "An Error Occured. Please try again!"
        }

        let errorMessage = '';

        switch(error.error.error.message) {
        case 'EMAIL_NOT_FOUND':
            errorMessage = "There is no user corresponding to this email address. Either the user does not exist or may have been deleted!"
            break
        case 'INVALID_PASSWORD':
            errorMessage = "The password is wrong. Please check the password and try again!"
            break
        case 'USER_DISABLED':
            errorMessage = "This user account has been disabled!"
            break
        case 'EMAIL_EXISTS':
            errorMessage = "The email address is already in use by another account."
            break
        case 'TOO_MANY_ATTEMPTS_TRY_LATER':
            errorMessage = "We have blocked all requests from this device due to unusual activity. Try again later."
            break
        default:
            errorMessage = "An Error Occured. Please try again!";
            break;
        }

        return errorMessage;
    }

And now, in both signup and login, inside catchError, we can just do - 

    .pipe(catchError(error => throwError(() => this.errorHandler(error))))

And that makes the whole code cleaner.