So, now that we know how to Signup and Login the user, we can start using the response that we get from the two requests.

We know that both the requests will give us the "Token" with which we can then let the user access parts of our application. So, as soon as a user is sucesssfully logged in or signed up, we should store the data about that user somewhere, for example what is the id of user, what is the token, what is the expiration date of the token and so on.

So, let's create a "Model" class for a User which will define how each "User" object should look like.

    export class User {
        constructor(
            public email: string, 
            public id: string, 
            private _token: string, 
            private _tokenExpirationDate: Date
        ){}
    }

Now, notice that we have not made "token" and "tokenExpirationDate" as public because we don't want them to be accessible from outside of this class.

The reason is that it is possible that a token is already expired at some point. So, if at that time, our "token" is accessible from outside, then it will cause issues. We should only return the token if it is valid. So, here, we can use a "getter" for the token,

    export class User {
        constructor(
            public email: string, 
            public id: string, 
            private _token: string, 
            private _tokenExpirationDate: Date
        ){}

        // Getter for the Token
        get token() {
            // Current Timestamp
            const currentTime = new Date();

            // If token has already expired, return null
            if(!this._tokenExpirationDate || currentTime > this._tokenExpirationDate) {
                return null
            }

            // Only return the Token when token has not expired
            return this._token;
        }
    }

And now, to get the token we just need to say "user.token". This will call the "token()" getter method that we have created and inside it, we check if the token is valid or not. If it is not valid, we return null, otherwise, we return the token.

Now that this part is done, we need to now think of a way to provide the User's details to all of our components in the app. And we also need to ensure that every time we need to check the user data, we are not making calls to firebase. We just need to make a single call in the initial application startup when user logs in and after that, till the token is valid, the user should be able to access the application.

And this is a good place to use a "Subject" because we can simply store the User data in a subject at the time the API call is made to login or signup. And then, whenever we need to check if the user is logged in, we just need to subscribe to this Subject and get the data.

    user = new Subject<User>();

So, as we get some data from the signup and login requests, we can "tap" into that data stream and then store the user data in the Subject. And so, we can use another "RxJS" operator here named "TAP" which lets us do some computations on the emitted data without changing the original emitted data. 

Again, since we will do the same thing for both signup and login requests, we can create a private method for this same logic.

    // User Creation Logic
    private createAndStoreUser(userData: AuthResponse) {
        // We get a field "expiresIn" as response with "seconds" after which token expires
        // So, on current date, we can add the "expiresIn" time
        // We are doing "* 1000" becayse "expiresIn" gives us "minutes"
        // Whereas getTime() gives us "milliseconds"
        const tokenExpirationDate = new Date(new Date().getTime() + +userData.expiresIn * 1000);

        const newUser = new User(userData.email, userData.localId, userData.idToken, tokenExpirationDate)

        this.user.next(newUser);
    }

Andm to use it we just do -

    pipe(
        tap(userData => this.createAndStoreUser(userData)),
        catchError(error => throwError(() => this.errorHandler(error)))
        )

And now, the Subject has the UserData that can now be accessed at any place in our application.
