Remember that we had changed the Firebase Realtime Datbase rules to this - 

    {
            "rules": {
                ".read": "auth != null",
                ".write": "auth != null",
            }
        }

This means, any request we make to Firebase Realtime Database is only successful if the user is authenticated. 

Now, while in our app we are authenticating the user and navigating the user to /recipes page, we will still get "401 Unauthorized" error when get request is made to fetch the recipes.

That is because, while we know that user is authenticated, Firebase does not. We need to tell Firebase that the request is being made by an authenticated user.

So, to all the "fetch" and "save" recipes requests we are making, we need to attach the "Token" that we get when user is authenticated.

Now, in our "DataStorageService" where we have the fetch and save methods for Recipes, we are simply "returning" the observables that we get from "get" and "put" methods.

The thing now is, to get the User Data, we have to use the "Subject" that we have in Auth Service.

# ISSUE WITH SUBJECTS

But, there is an issue. With a Subject, we can only get the "future" emissions after we have subscribed to that Subject.

What this means is, even if we login or signup the user and then use subject.next(), when we actually "subscribe" to that subject, we will not get the data which was emitted using "subject.next()". Now, if subject.next() happens again, only then we will start getting that new data. Because that's how "Subjects" work in RxJS.

Here is a little metaphor to explain it:

Imagine there is a Newspaper Subcription service such that if you subscribe to that service, you will start getting Newspapers every day.

Now, If I subscribe today, does it mean I will also get yesterday's newspaper just because I am now a subscriber? NO!

And that's how "Subjects" work. We only get the data that is emitted "after" we have subscribed. But in our case, we have already emitted the "User" data as soon as user logged in. But we are subscribing to the subject "after" we have logged in, to fetch the recipes.

So, here, Subject won't work at all. The alternative is a "BehaviorSubject" which differs from Subject in one important thing - It "holds" its value. As soon as we subscribe, whatever value at that point of time is the latest emitted value so far, that is emitted to the subscribers.

And that's exactly what we want in our case.

So, we can now change our "Subject" to a "BehaviorSubject". Note that a BehaviourSubject needs to have an initial value which we can simply give as null for now.

    user = new BehaviorSubject<User | null>(null);

And the rest should remain unchanged because just like "Subject", we can use "next" to emit some data using "BehaviorSubject".

# ISSUE WITH MULTIPLE OBSERVABLES

Now the next thing is that before we fetch recipes using the http get() call, we want to first get the User data from the BehaviorSubject and then pass the "token" to the request that we make using httpClient.

So, you might think that we can simply do -


    fetchRecipes() {

        this.authService.user.subscribe({
        next: data => {
            return this.http.get<Recipe[]>(this.url, {
                params: new HttpParams().set('auth', data?.token || '')
            }).pipe(map(data => {
                data.forEach(recipe => {
                    recipe.ingredients = recipe.ingredients || []
                })
                return data;
            }),
            tap( data => this.recipeService.setRecipes(data)))
        }
        })
    }

But, this will break the app.

But why?

At first glance, everything seems to be fine because all we are doing is subscribing to the "user" BehaviorSubject and it will give us the most recently emitted data. Then, we are returning another Observable which is the "http.get()" observable. We are also properly attaching the query parameter "auth" with the value as the "token".

But, the error that we get says - 

    Property 'subscribe' does not exist on type 'void'.
    this.dataStorageService.fetchRecipes().subscribe();

This means, somehow, "fetchRecipes()" is no longer returning anything at all, even though we have the "return" statement inside the "subject" subscription.

And that's because we cannot "return" anything from inside of "subscribe". A subscribe() methods always returns only one thing and that is a "Subscription".

If we try to "return" a value inside "subscribe()", then this is an "Anti-pattern". We cannot force an "Async" task to be "Synchronous" which we are doing when we try to "return" a value inside "subscribe()".

So, how to fix this issue?

Well, we can again make use of RxJS Observables.

# NEXT STEP

See, all that we want is ->

    1. Take the "data" from our "User" BehaviorSubject
    2. Only once we get some data, use that "data" in the http "get" method such that we can add a query paramter to this method with the token received in the "data"
    3. Return the observable returned by the "get" method

Here, we can use an RxJS operator named "switchMap".

    fetchRecipes() {

        return this.authService.user
        .pipe(
        switchMap(userData => 
            {
            return this.http.get<Recipe[]>(this.url, {params: new HttpParams().set("auth", userData?.token ?? '')})
            }),
        map(data => {
            data.forEach(recipe => {
            recipe.ingredients = recipe.ingredients || []
            })
            return data;
        }), 
        tap( data => this.recipeService.setRecipes(data))
        )
    }
    

What switchMap does is, it will wait for the Outer Observable to complete. Here, the Outer Observable is "authService.user" BehaviorSubject which gives us the User Data.

After this subscription is complete, we can take that emitted value "userData" and return a new Observable which is the "http.get" observable. And in that, we are also setting the query parameter "auth" to the "token" present in the "userData".

So when switch() operator is executed, we now have an observable returned by the http.get() method and on that, we can then do whatever we were doing previously.

So finally, the thing that we get is the innermost observable which is the http.get() observable.

This also means, that we can have switchMaps inside switchMaps inside switchMaps and at the end, we will get the innermost observable. 

This is the reason why SwitchMap is one of the "FLATTENING" operators. FLATTENING means to "subscribe inside of a subscribe".

This is a very good article on all the flattening operators -> https://dev.to/hssanbzlm/switchmap-mergemap-concatmap-and-exhaustmap-like-you-have-never-seen-109o