If you think about it, what we did in the previous section is something that we have to do in every single outgoing request. Now, it is quite tedius to copy paste the same logic in multiple http request methods.

Instead, it would be better if for each outgoing request, we can put the "auth" query parameter at just once place. And well, that's where "Interceptors" come into the picture.

Let's create an "AuthInterceptor" in the auth folder.

    @Injectable()
    export class AuthInterceptor implements HttpInterceptor {

    constructor(private authService: AuthService) {}

        intercept(request: HttpRequest<unknown>, next: HttpHandler): Observable<HttpEvent<unknown>> {
            
            return next.handle(request);
        }
    }

So, this is how the Interceptor class looks like when it is created.

We have also injected the "AuthService" since we need that "BehaviorSubject" out from this service.

And now, we can do the same thing that we did for FetchRecipes method inside this interceptor.

That is, we will take the BehaviorSubject, use switchMap on it such that when this BehaviorSubject emits userData, we will then take that userData, set the "auth" query parameter and then simply return the "next.handle(request)" observable.

    intercept(request: HttpRequest<unknown>, next: HttpHandler): Observable<HttpEvent<unknown>> {

        return this.authService.user.pipe(
        switchMap(userData => {

            // Modify the Outgoing Request
            const modifiedRequest = request.clone({
                params: request.params.append("auth", userData?.token ?? '')
            })

            // Forward the modifiedRequest
            return next.handle(modifiedRequest)
        })
        );

    }

So, here the code is cleaner. 

BTW don't forget to register this AuthInterceptor in the app.module.ts file n the providers array otherwise the logic won't work - 

    providers: [{provide: HTTP_INTERCEPTORS, useClass: AuthInterceptor, multi: true}]

One improvement we can do is that we can exclude the signin and signup requests that we make to firebase authentication from the logic in interceptor.

So, we don't want to append the "auth" query param for those because at the time we do that, the token will be null only since user is not yet logged in or signed up.

So, we can add a check like -

    if (request.url.startsWith('https://identitytoolkit.googleapis.com')) {
        return next.handle(request);
        }
