So far in our application, even if the user is logged in, if the page is refreshed, all that authentication data is lost and we have to again log in the user.

But, in almost all the web apps, that does not happen. You might have seen that if you login to Facebook on a browser, close the browser or the tab and again open facebook, it won't ask you to login again, unless ofcourse there is some time limit after which it should ask you to login.

And that happens because the data about authentication is presisted/saved in the browser. 

So, every time we open Facebook, before loading anything it will check if there is any saved data in the browser about user's autentication like the "token" or "token Expiry date" etc. If this data is valid, that means simply show the homepage since user is already logged in.

So, we can also implement a similar functionality in our project.

It makes sense that to implement this functionality, we need to save the User's Data somewhere outside the angular application so that when the application reloads, even then we can access the data that we had saved.

We need a storage that does not get reset whenever page reloads or even the browser restarts.

In a browser, we can work with different types of storages like "Cookies" or "Local Storage".

Let's use Local Storage in our project.

So, as soon as we create the User object with all the data, we can also save it to the localStorage in the browser -

    const newUser = new User(userData.email, userData.localId, userData.idToken, tokenExpirationDate)

    this.user.next(newUser);

    localStorage.setItem("userData", JSON.stringify(newUser))

Note that localStorage stores data as key-value pairs where both the key and value are "string". So, we cannot directly store a Javascript Object as value. That's why we have to use "JSON.stringify" which simply converts a value to a JSON string.

So now that we are saving the userData in the localStorage, let's now add a new method in our Auth Service that will check if the localstorage already has the userData. If yes, then we can check if the token is valid or not and based on that, we can log the user it automatically.

    autoLogin() {
        // If we don't have userData
        if (!localStorage.getItem('userData')) return;

        // Otherwise
        // Get the original javascript Object
        const userData : {email: string, 
        id: string, 
        _token: string, 
        _tokenExpirationDate: string} = JSON.parse(localStorage.getItem('userData')!)

        const loggedInUser = new User(userData.email, userData.id, userData._token, new Date(userData._tokenExpirationDate));

        // Check if the loaded user has a valid token
        if (loggedInUser.token) this.user.next(loggedInUser); 
    }

So, if we don't have any "userData" key in the localStorage, we can simply return.

Otherwise, we take the stored data, which is a JSON string, and parse it to a javascript object. Note that after we parse it, each value will be a string. This means the "tokenExpirationDate" is also a string at this point. 

That's why, when we create a new "User" object, we have to manually do "new Date(userData._tokenExpirationDate)" to convert this string into an actual Date object.

And finally, we can emit this new User object using our BehaviorSubject but only if the token is valid. Because it is also possible that the token has already expired so it makes no sense to still consider the user as authenticated.

In fact, if token is invalid, we can also delete the userData from localStorage.


    // Check if the loaded user has a valid token
    if (loggedInUser.token) this.user.next(loggedInUser); 

    // If token is invalid, remove the data from localStorage
    else localStorage.removeItem('userData');

And now, if you open the /recipes route, you will see that it works absolutely fine. And even if you reload the tab, the request still has the auth token in it because this user data is now stored in the local storage.
