Just like Auto Login functionality where we check the localStorage on application startup, we can also add a logOut functionality where we keep track of how much time is left before the token expires. At that time, we should simply redirect the user back to the login page.

For that, again, we can create a separate method. 

    autoLogout(expirationDuration: number) {
        this.tokenExpirationTimeout = setTimeout(() => {
            this.logout();
        }, expirationDuration);
    }

Since all we want is a "timer" here, we can simply use "setTimeout" method here which takes two arguments -> First is the function and second is the time in milliseconds. So basically, after the specified milliseconds, the setTimeout will call the function in the first argument.

So, the method above takes the "expirationDuration" which is the time left for the token to expire. And so, all that we are doing now is to use "setTimeout" and then after "expirationDuration" time, simply call the logout method.

The logout method is defined like this -

    logout(){

        this.user.next(null);

        // Redirect to the /auth page
        this.router.navigate(['/auth']);

        // Remove the localStorage data about the user
        localStorage.removeItem('userData');
        
        // Clear the timer
        clearTimeout(this.tokenExpirationTimeout);
    }

Always make sure you are clearing the timeouts. So, when we log the user out, we know that we no longer need this timer to keep running so we clear it using "clearTimeout".

Now the last step is to think of when should we start this time.

It makes sense to start it when the user is authenticated.

We know the user can be authenticated in two places -> Either when the user manually enters email and password and hits login/signup, or when the userData is stored in localStorage and it has a valid token.

So, in both places, we can now call the method for our timer.

First, in the login() method, we can do -


    // Emit the newUser using the BehaviorSubject
    this.user.next(newUser);

    // Start the expiration timer
    this.autoLogout(+userData.expiresIn * 1000)

    // Save the userData in localStorage
    localStorage.setItem("userData", JSON.stringify(newUser))


That's pretty simple.

Next, in the autoLogin() method, we have to do some extra calculations because in that method, we don't have the exact milliseconds after which token will expire. We just have the date value at which token expires.

So, what we can do is we can see what is the difference between that expiry date and the current date in milliseconds. That will be the duration after which our setTimeout() method should call the logout method.

    // Check if the loaded user has a valid token
    if (loggedInUser.token) {

      // Emit the loggedInUser using the BehaviorSubject
      this.user.next(loggedInUser); 

      // Current Time in milliseconds
      const currentTime = new Date().getTime();

      // Time at which Token Expires in milliseconds
      const tokenExpirationTime = new Date(userData._tokenExpirationDate).getTime();

      // Time in Milliseconds after which token expires
      const timeLeftForTokenExpiry = tokenExpirationTime - currentTime

      // Start the timer for auto logout
      this.autoLogout(timeLeftForTokenExpiry);
    } else{
      // If the saved "userData" does not have a valid token
      this.logout();
    }