By now, it seems like our Authentication work is done.

Since now, the user can login or signup and only if the user is logged in, the requests can be successful using the Auth Token.

We also added the auto-login and auto-logout functionality using the LocalStorage and setTimeout.

But, there is still one issue.

The thing is, even though Authentication is required to access APIs, it is not required to access the routes.

What it means is, we can still go to the localhost:4200/recipes route even if user is not logged in or signup up. And while no recipes will be shown since the API call fails, the page stil loads up.

It would be better if we also protect our Rotues such that if the user is not Authenticated, the user cannot access that route at all. And so, a better way would be to redirect the user back to the login/signup page from the /recipes route.

And since we want to protect our route, we can use the "Route Guard" concept here for that. We will use a "CanActivate" route guard since that lets us define the logic to activate or deactivate a route.

In the Auth folder, let's create a new Route Guard file named "auth.guard.ts"

Note that since we are using Angular 15, we no longer need to implement the "CanActivate" interface for our Guard since this is deprecated.

Instead, we have to simply export a function that is of type "CanActivateFn".

So, we can do something like - 


    export const authGuard : CanActivateFn = 
    (route: ActivatedRouteSnapshot, state: RouterStateSnapshot, router: Router = inject(Router), authService: AuthService = inject(AuthService)) => {}


So, we export a function from this file and this function is named "authGuard". This function is of type "CanActivateFn" and just like how we used to implement "canActivate()" method before Angular 15, this "authGuard" method takes in at least two arguments. First is the "ActivatedRouteSnapshot" for the currently active route, and the second is the "RouterStateSnapshot" for the state of the Router at that time.

Since we are not dealing with classes here, we cannot have a constructor in which we inject the dependencies. Instead, we will do that in the function arguments only. So, we inject the "Router" which will help us to navigate the user somewhere, and the "AuthService" which will help us to check if user is logged in or not.

Since our "authGuard" function is of type "CanActivateFn", it is expected to have a return type of 

    Observable<boolean | UrlTree> | Promise<boolean | UrlTree> | boolean | UrlTree

That is, it can return values of these types -

    1. boolean
    2. UrlTree
    3. Observable<boolean>
    4. Observable<UrlTree>
    5. Promise<boolean>
    6. Promise<UrlTre>

So, we cannot simply do -

    return authService.user;

    Because, this will instead give us an Observable<User> which is not one of the types that can be returned. 

So, we have to take the value emitted by this BehaviorSubject and then transform it and return a different type of value instead. And this means, we have to use a "map" operator here.

    // Use the BehaviorSubject to check if user is logged in
    return authService.user.pipe(
        map(userData => {

        // If user is logged in and has a valid token
        if (userData?.token) return true

        // If user is not authenticated
        return false

        }), tap(isAuthenticated => {

        // Since map() above will give us ab Observable which either has true or false data, we can then use this data and navigate the user back to the "auth" page if it is "false"
        if (!isAuthenticated) router.navigate(['/auth'])
        })
    );

Now, the reason we have to use "tap" here after "map" is that we cannot directly navigate the user to the /auth page inside "map" when ther user is not authenticated. Because we need to return accepted valuse from the authGuard method. 

So, using map, we simply return an Observable of boolean values so either that Observable will emit "true" or "false". And that's why, we can then "tap" into that Observable stream and then if the emitted value is "false", it means user should not be allowed to access "recipes" route and instead, we can redirect the user back to the /auth page.

Now, before Angular 7.1, this is how we would redirect the user back to some other page in the canActivate route guard.

Because before Angualr 7.1, the only options to return from the CanActivate guard were "boolean" expressions. So, we could only return "boolean" or "Promise<boolean>" or "Observable<boolean>".

But starting with Angular 7.1, we can also return a "UrlTree" object.

As Angular explains, UrlTree is a data structure that provides a lot of affordances in dealing with URLs.

The Router provides a method named "createUrlTree" to which we can pass URL fragments and then, it appends those to the current URL tree to create a new URL tree.

Just think of it has the router.navigate method but here, the "createUrlTree" actually returns a "UrlTree" which is a valid return type for a canActivate route guard.

So, now, we no longer need to use "tap" and we can simply do -

    return authService.user.pipe(
        map(userData => {

        // If user is logged in and has a valid token, activate the route
        if (userData?.token) return true

        // Otherwise, we can navigate the user back to the Login/signup page
        return router.createUrlTree(['/auth'])

        })
    );

And now, our Auth Guard is ready. We now just need to use it in the app.routing.module file.

    {path: 'recipes', component: RecipesComponent, title: "Recipes", children: [
        {path: '', component: RecipeStartComponent, title: "Recipes"},
        {path: 'new', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Add New Recipe"},
        {path: ':id', component: RecipeDetailComponent, title: "Recipe Details"},
        {path: ':id/edit', component: RecipeEditComponent, title: "Edit Recipe"}
    ], resolve: [recipesResolver], canActivate: [authGuard]}

Since we used "authGuard" on the /recipes route, this also means it will be applied to all the child routes and so, the user will be redirected to the /auth page if the user is not authenticated and tries to access "/recipes/:id" or the "/recipes/new" or the "/recipes/:id/edit" routes.