Since Pipes are simply functions in Angular, it also means they can accept more arguments than just the value that we are transforming.

For example, there is a "DatePipe" in Angular which is used to transform an expression (of type string, number of Date) into a Date value.

Now, this pipe can take more values as parameters so we can really control how to show the date and what format it should be.

If you go to the official page - https://angular.io/api/common/DatePipe

You can see the syntax is - 

    {{ value_expression | date [ : format [ : timezone [ : locale ] ] ] }}

This means, we can provide what "format" should be, what "timezone" should be and the "locale" data. By default, these are undefined if we don't provide them.

To provide the parameters, we just need to use a colon ":" followed by the value for that parameters (the order should be same as the above syntax)

For example, there are a lot of predefined "format" values that we can provide such as "short", "medium", "long", "full", "longDate", "shortDate", "fullDate" and so on

"fullDate" will show a date as "Monday, June 15, 2015" so, we can use it as - 

    {{someDateObject | date : "fullDate"}}


And we are not limited to just the built-in "format" values. We can provide custom format options as well. All of this is available on https://angular.io/api/common/DatePipe#usage-notes

So, let's say a date should be shown as "June 15, 2015 at 09:43 PM".

By Default, there is no such built-in format. So, we can pass a custom one.

    {{ someDateObject | date : "MMMM dd, yyyy 'at'  hh:mm a"}}

If we want to provide more parameters, we just separate them by colon (:) instead of a comma.

So for example, the next parameter after "format" is the "timezone". By default, Angular takes user's system time as the default value. 

If we want, the timezone offset or standard GMT/UTC or continental US timezone abbreviation can also be passed.

    {{ someDateObject | date : "MMMM dd, yyyy 'at'  hh:mm a" : 'UTC +5:30'}}