Some times, we have to create custom pipes since some functionality is not possible with the built-in ones.

To create a new custom pipe we can generate a file by angular CLI - 

    ng g p <name of the pipe>

For example, let's say we want a pipe that shortens the strings and then adds maybe "..." after some specific length. So, we can generate a new file as - 

    ng g p shorten

This will generate a new file in the app folder named "shorten.pipe.ts".

And if we open it, we will see that this class is not having a "@Component" or "@Injectable" decorator. Instead, this file has an "@Pipe" decorator.

This decorator marks this class as a "Pipe" and inside it, we can pass some properties. One important property is the "name" and this value is actually what we use in the template when we want to use a pipe.

For example, take the built-in uppercase pipe in Angular.

If you check its GitHub code - https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.2.11/packages/common/src/pipes/case_conversion_pipes.ts#L98-L125

You will see that while the class name is "UpperCasePipe", the "name" passed in @Pipe is "uppercase". And that's why, when we use this pipe in template, we use it as {{ string | uppercase}} instead of {{string | UpperCasePipe }}.

Angular recommends that when we create a custom Pipe, we should use "camelcase" for the "name" property's value and we should not use hyphens in the name - https://angular.io/guide/styleguide#pipe-names


Another important thing about custom pipes is that the class needs to implement the "PipeTransform" interface. Because, implementing this interface will also force that class to implement the "transform" method of that interface.

    @Pipe({
     name: 'shorten'
    })
    export class ShortenPipe implements PipeTransform {

    transform(value: unknown, ...args: unknown[]): unknown {
        return null;
    }

    }

As we can see, the "transform" method takes two arguments. One is the "value" which is some value on which we use this pipe. The other property is an array of arguments which we pass to pipes. We saw this when we passed the "timezone" and "format" to the date pipe. Those were all the arguments.

Final thing to keep in mind is that this Pipe class is not added to "Providers" in the App.module.ts. Instead, it is added to the "declarations" because "declarations" is for the Components, Directives and Pipes.

Now, since we want our custom pipe to shorten the name, we can simply do -

    transform(value: string, ...args: unknown[]): unknown {
        if (value.length > 15) {
            return value.substring(0,15) + "...";
        }
        return value
    }

And now, all that's left is to use this pipe in the template. Remember that we have to use the same name as defined in @Pipe decorator.

    {{ server.name | shorten }}

And that's how we create a simple custom pipe and use it.

# PARAMETRIZING OUR CUSTOM PIPE

While we have create a custom pipe, we can improve it by passing values from outside. For that, we can pass arguments to the pipe.

Let's say we want the value to be provided from outside for the length up to which a string is shown and after that we trim it.

And that's pretty simple. We just have to provide another argument to the pipe when we use it. And then, we can use that argument in our logic.


    transform(value: string, limit: number): unknown {
        if (value.length > limit) {
            return value.substring(0,limit) + "...";
        }
        return value
    }

And in the template, we just do -

    {{ server.name | shorten : 15 }}

So now, "15" will be passed to the "limit" and so, if the length of the string is greater than 15, it will be shortened.

Note that the order matters here. So, if we have multiple arguments, those need to be passed in same order as we have defined in the transform method.

So, if we have - 

    transform(value: string, limit: number, anotherArgument: any): unknown {
        console.log("Another arugument is ", anotherArgument);
        if (value.length > limit) {
            return value.substring(0,limit) + "...";
        }
        return value
  }

And in the template we do -

    {{ server.name | shorten : 10 : 15 }}

Then, the "limit" will get "10" and "anotherArgument" will get "15" as the value because that is the order in which we have passed them.
