Let's try to create another pipe.

This time, we will create a "Filter" pipe. So basically, we will have a search box in our project in which the user can enter some text. And then, the servers whose status matches the entered text, only those will be listed. 

This is the search box -

    <input class="form-control" type="text" placeholder="Search" [(ngModel)]="filteredStatus">

So, again, we can create a new pipe using Angular CLI - 

    ng g p filter

This pipe will take the value, which is the original list of servers, and another argument "filteredString" which is the text entered in the search box by the user.

    transform(value: any, filterString: string): unknown {
    
        if (!value || !filterString){
            return value;
        }

        const resultArray = [];
        for (const item of value) {
            if (item.status == filterString) {
                resultArray.push(item)
            }
        }

        return resultArray;
    }

Now, the question is, where do we use it in the template?

We need to use it on some place where we are outputting the list of servers because that's the "value" property of this pipe. 

And the only place we are using the list of servers in template is in the *ngFor directive. 

Well, the thing is, we can use Pipes not only in string interpolation, that is inside {{}} brackets, but also in the directives.

So, we can say -

    *ngFor="let server of servers | filter : filteredStatus"

And now, we can see that initially, since "filterStatus" is empty, we will see all the servers. But, if we write "stable" then it will only list those servers that are having status as "stable".

And so, our filter pipe seems to be working fine right?

Let's see what happens if a new server is added. Let's add an new button for that.

    <button class="btn btn-primary" type="button" (click)="onAddServer()">Add Server</button>

On Clicking it, we will just add one generic server object to the servers list - 

    onAddServer() {
        this.servers.push({
            instanceType: 'small',
            name: 'New Server',
            status: 'stable',
            started: new Date(15, 1, 2017)
        })
    }

Now, when the page loads, we see this button and when it gets clicked, we see the new server also added. But, let's filter the "stable" servers only. 

We see that it again works fine. As we not only see all the old servers but also the newly added one.

But now, if we click the add button, when it added one more server to the list, that does not show up here. So, what is going on?