Our Filter Pipe does not show the newly added server when we click the "Add Button" at the time when we have already filtered servers.

Now, this is not a bug. This is just how Angular Pipes work by default.

By Default, "almost" all Angular pipes are "Pure" pipes. This means, by default, the "transform" method only runs when the properties of the method change.

But you can say that we are changing the "servers" list by clicking the button.

And here comes the concept of "Primitive" and "Non-Primitive" data types in TypeScript/JavaScript.

"Primitive" data types are strings, numbers, booleans or a change of an Object reference.

"Non-Primitive" data types are Objects and Arrays.

The thing is, when we pass an Array or Object to the transform method, we are not passing the actual array but the reference of it. And so, even when we update the array, the reference still remains the same. So for Angular, there is no change in the "value" property. 

But, when we add a new string in the search box, the second property of "transform" method changes because it is a string which is a primitive data type so the property is passed by value, not by reference.

Now, there are situations where we don't want this behavior. We want to make sure that if some property, like an array or object, in our component changes, then the pipe that acts upon that property also reruns its transform method.

In that case, we can explicitly tell Angular to treat our Pipe as an "Impure" pipe. And that's super simple.

We just need to add a new property in @Pipe decorator named "pure" and set it to False.

    @Pipe({
        name: 'filter',
        pure: false
    })
    export class FilterPipe implements PipeTransform {}

So basically, Impure Pipes can be created for cases - 

    - when you pass an array or object that got the content changed (but is still the same reference)
    - when the pipe injects a service to get access to other values, Angular doesn't recognize if they have changed

But there is a reason why Angular does not have all the Pipes as "Impure" by default. That is because, Impure Pipes are prone to be inefficient. Since "transform" will run again and again for every change on the Arrays or Objects properties.

And that's also the reason why there is no built-in "Filter" pipe even though this is one of the most common features in a web application. Because using Impure pipes come at a performance cost if not used properly.

There are some buiilt-in pipes in Angular that are "impure", for example the "JSONPipe" which is used to output an Object in the UI using string interpolation. If you go to the Github link, you will see that this pipe has "pure" set to "false" inside @Pipe decorator - https://angular.io/api/common/JsonPipe