So far we saw a few pipes and also created some custom ones. But, one thing common is all of those is that all of them were handling Synchronous Data.

In Angular, we have one built-in pipe named "AsyncPipe" which is used to handle "Asynchronous Data".

Let's say that we have to make an api call that returns the status of our app and it takes a couple of seconds to get the response.

Normally, we would subscribe to the Observable in the ngOnInit and then get the data and update some property in the .ts file and then that will be shown in HTML.

Just to simulate an HTTP call, we can create an observable with a setTimeout inside it - 

    statusObs = new Observable(observer => {
        setTimeout(() => {
        observer.next('stable');
        observer.complete();
        }, 2000)
    });

And now, let's say we have a variable named "appStatus" in the component.ts file

    appStatus = '';

In the ngOnInit, we can subscribe to this observable -

    ngOnInit() {
      this.statusObs.subscribe((data: string)=> {
        this.appStatus = data
      });
  }

And so, after 2 seconds, we will get the "stable" string as data and "appStatus" will be set to this value.

In HTML, we can do -

    {{appStatus}}

Now, to do all this task automatically, there is the "AsyncPipe".

So, instead of having a variable in component.ts and then having to subscribe to the observable and then setting the value of variable, and then unsubscribing, we can just do this in the template - 

    {{statusObs | async}}

And that's it!

And if you are wondering about unsubscribing, that is also handled by the "Async" pipe automatically. Isn't that awesome?

And we can use an "OR" statement if we want to show, let's say a "Loading..." text till the data is not fetched.

    {{(statusObs | async) || "Loading..."}}


Check this video for some ways in which we can use Async Pipe effectively - https://youtu.be/ev1yE0SYs9Y