In our app component css file, we have specifically mentioned that the paragraph element needs to be of Blue color.

But still, after we split our app in multiple components, the paragraph is not Blue for the server blueprint when it is generated when we click the button.

Why is it not workin after we moved the code from one component to other? Because even if we moved the html to a different file, we are still using that component inside app component only using its selector, right?

That's due to the concept of "View Encapsulation" in Angular.

# WHAT IS VIEW ENCAPSULATION?

View Encapsulation is an important concept which supports keeping every component modular and independent.

In Angular, there are three types of View Encapsulation strategies provided - 

    1. Emulated (default)
    2. ShadowDOM
    3. None

By Default, Angular uses the "Emulated" strategy for View Encapsulation which means, if a component has some styles in its css file, then those styles will only be applicable to that component. No other component can get affected with those styles. That's the reason why in our app, the parapgraph did not turn blue even though app component css has that rule.

That's because the paragraph is in a differernt component than app component.

If we want to not have any encapsulation, we can manually set the strategy to "None" in the @Component decorator of our parent component.

    @Component({
        encapsulation: ViewEncapsulation.None
    })

Now, whatever styles the parent component has, they will also be applied to other components.

If you add "ViewEncapsulation.Emulated" to any component, you will see that the html that we can inspect in the browser has the style in <head> but it uses attribute of specific element to which the style should be applied, something like 

    p[_ngcontent-ldg-c46] {
        color: blue;
        }

In this way, no matter what other component has a paragraph element, this style will not be applied to that.


But if we use "ViewEncapsulation.None", the style will be simply be inserted in <head> as -   

        p {
            color: blue;
        }

So it means, all paragraphs will get this style added to them.

But keep in mind that if an other component has specific style for <p> tag, then the style inside app component.css won't be used there. Since the component's style will override that.


So the summary is - 

 1. When using the emulated view encapsulation, Angular pre-processes all the component's styles so that they are only applied to the component's view.

 2. If "Emulated" strategy is used, Angular adds the styles for this component to the <head> of the document, but with "scoped" styles.

 3. If "None" strategy is used, Angular adds the styles for this component as global styles to the <head> of the document.

 4. If "ShadowDom" strategy is used, Angular adds styles for this component only to the shadow DOM host, so they are not visible outside the shadow DOM. 
