# What are Template Variables in Angular?

Template variables help you use data from one part of a template in another part of the template.

A template variables can refer to following - 

   -  a DOM element within a template
   -  a directive or component
   -  a TemplateRef from an ng-template
   -  a web component

We use a Hash symbol (#) to declare a template variable.

Suppose, in our project, instead of using ngModel to take the value that user enters in the input fields, we want to use template variable.

Because if you think about it, it makes no sense to keep updating the value as user adds something in input field. Because we will use this value only when user clicks the button to add the server or server blueprint.

So, instead of keep listening to user inputs and keep updating the variable in .ts file, we can take the input that user has added only when the user clicks the button.

That, we can do using a template variable.

Before, it looks like this - 

    <input type="text" class="form-control" [(ngModel)]="newName">

But after we remove the 2-way binding and use template variable, it looks like this - 

    <input #serverNameInput type="text" class="form-control">

So here, "serverNameInput" is a template variable that is referencing this input field. NOTE that this is referencing the whole input field, not just the value that user enters. This is like using "document.querySelector()" in vanilla JS to get a reference of a DOM element.

So now, when the button is clicked, we can pass this reference variable as input. Note that we cannot directly use template variables in our .ts file. We can only use them in the template. So, that's why to access them in .ts file, we have to pass them as an argument to a function.

    <button (click)="onAddServer(serverNameInput)">
        Add Server
    </button>

So now, we can access this variable's value in our onAddServer method in .ts file. If we console log the value, then we will see that the console simply logs the whole input field. This again proves that we have a reference to the whole input field, not just its value. 


And just how we do in vanilla JS, to get the value of input field, we have to use ".value" property on it.

So we can print the input field's value as - 

    console.log(serverNameInput.value)


And the same thing we can do with the other input field where we get the server content. Note that the names need to be unique for template variables if we are using them on different elements.

So now, our input fields look like - 

    <input #serverNameInput type="text" class="form-control">
    <input #serverContentInput type="text" class="form-control">

Our button looks like - 

    <button 
    (click)="onAddServer(serverNameInput,serverContentInput)"
    >
      Add Server
    </button>

And out method looks like - 

    onAddServer(serverNameInput, serverContentInput) {
        this.serverCreated.emit({serverName: serverNameInput.value, serverContent: serverContentInput.value})
    }


# HOW VALUE GETS ASSIGNED TO A TEMPLATE VARIABLE

 1. If you declare the variable on a component, the variable refers to the component instance.

 2. If you declare the variable on a standard HTML tag, the variable refers to the element.

 3. If you declare the variable on an <ng-template> element, the variable refers to a TemplateRef instance which represents the template

# SCOPE OF TEMPLATE VARIABLES

Just like variables in JavaScript or TypeScript code, template variables are scoped to the template that declares them.

Similarly, Structural directives such as *ngIf and *ngFor, or <ng-template> declarations create a new nested template scope, much like JavaScript's control flow statements like if and for create new lexical scopes. 

You cannot access template variables within one of these structural directives from outside of its boundaries.

An inner template can access template variables that the outer template defines.

However, accessing a template variable from a child scope in the parent template doesn't work.



