When a component is created by Angular, there are a few phases in this component creation process. And we can hook into these phases if we want to.

We can hook into those phases by implementing some methods in Angular. And there is a specific order in which these methods are called in Angular.

# 1. ngOnChanges()
 
This method gets executed right at the start when a new component is created. But, it may also get called multiple times during the component's lifecycle. WHY? Because, the purpose of ngOnChanges() is to respond when the Input properties change. 

Note that ngOnChanges is specific to bound inputs on component. It means, if our component does not have any @Input properties, then ngOnChanges will never get called.

So, it means, if parent changes the value of the property that child component is accepting as @Input, then there is an event that is fired -> OnChanges event. And to handle that event, we have ngOnChanges() in Angular.

But there is some things to note. Suppose, we are taking an array or an object as @Input(). In that case, onChanges() will not fire if that array/object value changes.

Because, Array/Object are non primitive data types. It means, when we compare the previous and current array in ngOnChanges, then it does not compare the actual value. It compares the references. And since reference to the array/object won't change Angular thinks the array/object did not change from how it was initially.


# 2. ngOnInit()

This is called only once, after the first time ngOnChanges() is called. Note that this does not mean ngOnInit() is not called if ngOnChanges() does not get called.

ngOnInit() will always get called when the component is initialized. But, if ngOnChanges() is called as well, then Angular will first call ngOnChanges() once, and then ngOnInit() after it.

If there is a code that we need to execute as soon as component initializes, like calling some api to fetch some data and set some properties etc, then ngOnInit() is the recommended place to do that. We can do the same in constructor() but that is not recommended. Angular recommends constructor to be used only to initialize the class members but not for the actual work.

ngOnInit() runs after the constructor().

# 3. ngDoCheck() 

The ngDoCheck() hook will fire each time "Change Detection" runs in Angular.

It also means, this is called a lot of times in the component lifecycle, even if you do thinks like clicking some button, key strokes etc since those are also events.

We can use it when Angular won't or can't detect changes on its own. For example, the array or object scenario we discussed above in ngOnChanges.

# 4. ngAfterContentInit() 

Remember the content projection concept using ng-content ? 

Well, the ngAfterContentInit() is called after the content that is being projected to a component has been initialized.

This hook is called only once and after the ngDoCheck() is called.

Also, even if component does not have any projected content, this hook is called.

# 5. ngAfterContentChecked()

When change detection has checked the projected content, then the ngAfterContentChecked() will be called.

That means, it is called after ngAfterContentInit() and afterwards,  it will be called after every ngDoCheck() call.

# 6. ngAfterViewInit()

This is called after Angular has completed initialization of component's view and also its child's view. We can say when component has been rendered on the page then this is called.

This is called only once, after the first ngAfterContentChecked() call.

# 7. ngAfterViewChecked() 

After Angular checks the component's views and child views, this hook is called.

It is called after ngAfterViewInit() and then after every ngAfterContentChecked() call.

## INIT VS CHECKED

Angular fires the AfterContentInit & AfterViewInit hooks, when the content or view is initialized for the first time. That happens during the first change detection cycle, which angular invokes immediately after the instantiation of the component.

Angular fires the AfterContentChecked & AfterViewChecked hooks, where Angular checks if the the content or view has changed. i.e previously rendered content or view is same as the current content or view.

# 8. ngOnDestroy() 

Just before Angular destroys the component, this hook is called. This is used to do things like unsubscribing to observables, detach event handlers etc which can otherwise cause memory leak issues.

Note that this is called "before" Angular destroys the directive or component. Not "after".


# IMPORTANT TAKE AWAYS

1. Angular initializes and checks the content first, before the components view & child views.

2. After content, angular initializes the components view. It also initializes the child views & runs their change detection. Hence, by the time we receive the hooks AfterViewInit & AfterViewChecked, the current component & all its children are ready to render.

3. Init hooks fires only once, during the first change detection cycle, which angular fires immediately after the creation of the component. This makes it best place to run some custom initialization logic.

4. Checked hooks runs on every change detection cycle. For example when you just click on the input element and move away.Hence it is better to avoid using these hooks. If you choose to implement these hooks then ensure that your code is extremely lightweight otherwise it may slow down the application.

5. In development mode, Angular runs Change Detection twice to check if the value has changed since the first run. In production mode change detection is only run once to have a better performance. That's why if we console log inside ngDoCheck(), it will print twice when we reload the page.
