Let's try to write some tests for Angular services.

In our project, we have a "users.service.ts" file inside app > shared > services folder.

This service has basic "addUser" and "removeUser" methods to add or remove user from the users list. The users list is of type "UserInterface[]" and we are importing this interface from app > shared > types folder.

So, as we know already, we will create a new file named "users.service.spec.ts" in which we will write the tests for this service.

# TESTBED

Now, when it comes to Services and Component testing in Angular, we cannot just straight away start writing the tests. We have to first do some initial configuration for the tests.

Since we are dealing with a service here, we need an Angular module in which we can inject this service and then we can test it.

Your application relies on Angular dependency injection (DI) to create services. When a service has a dependent service, DI finds or creates that dependent service. And if that dependent service has its own dependencies, DI finds-or-creates them as well

As service consumer, you don't worry about any of this. You don't worry about the order of constructor arguments or how they're created.

As a service tester, you must at least think about the first level of service dependencies but you can let Angular DI do the service creation and deal with constructor argument order when you use the TestBed testing utility to provide and create service.

So, what is this "TestBed"?

It creates a dynamically-constructed Angular test module that emulates an Angular @NgModule.

So, we need to configure the TestBed before each test, adding any components, modules and services you need for the test. It's just like configuring an regular @NgModule from scratch, but you just add what you need.

So simply put, we use a TestBed for configuring a module for the testing environment.

# BEFOREEACH

We have to configure a test module and inject the UserService in that module before we run each test. And here, we can use a method named "beforeEach" just to write this logic. As the name suggests, whatever code is present in this method, that code is run before each test runs.

So, how do we configure a testing module using TestBed?

Well, that's pretty simple - 

    describe('UsersService', () => {
        beforeEach(() => {
            TestBed.configureTestingModule({
                providers: [UserService]
            });
        });
    });

Note that here, when we use "configureTestingModule", we can pass an object which has the same properties that we have in an @NgModule decorator. That is, imports, declarations, providers etc.

So here, we added our UserService class in the providers.

Now, for our tests, we want to get an instance of this UserService so it means we have to inject the UserService. How to do that?

Well, we can again use TestBed here.

    describe('UsersService', () => {

        let userService: UserService;
        beforeEach(() => {
            TestBed.configureTestingModule({
                providers: [UserService]
            });

            userService = TestBed.inject(UserService);
        });
    });


So, we just used "inject" function of the TestBed to get an instance of "UserService". Note that we created a variable "userService" outside of the beforeEach which will point to this reference. And this is the variable we will use in all the tests wherever we need access to the UserService.

# WRITING TESTS

Now, let's write our first unit test that will test if the service is created or not.

    it('creates a service', () => {
        expect(userService).toBeTruthy();
    });

So, in this test, we are simply expecting the "userService" variable to be a truthy value. Because we know that when we defined it, it was undefined. And it will only be set using "TestBed.inject". And so, if this variable has a truthy value, it means the service has been created successfully.

Remember that it always makes sense to test for behaviors and not plain values. It means, even though in our users.service.ts file, we have a value "users" which is initially an empty array, it makes no sense to write a test for this. We should be testing the behaviors instead which are the "addUser" and "removeUser" methods.

Now, let's add a test for the addUser method. As we did before, we will write a new describe() block for all the tests related to addUser method.

Let's add a new user and test if the user array changed. Since we want to write a failing test case first, we can simply write - 

    describe('addUser', () => { 

        it('should add a user', () => {
            const user: UserInterface = {
                id: '3',
                name: 'foo'
            };

            userService.addUser(user);
            expect(userService.users).toEqual([]);
        });
    });

Note that we are expecting the "users" array to be empty even after we called addUser. It means this test will fail. But, let's see what is the console output.

We see that the test failed because we expected an empty array but the actual value of "users" is an array which has an object in it.

So, we can update our test case now so that it passes.

    expect(userService.users).toEqual([{id: '3', name: 'foo'}]);

Similarly, we can write a test for the removeUser function.

        describe('removeUser', () => { 

            it('should remove a user', () => {
                userService.users = [{id: '3', name: 'foo'}];
                userService.removeUser('3');
                expect(userService.users).toEqual([]);
            });
        });