Before we talk about mocking and spying, let's inject the Utils service inside the Users service.

    utilsService = inject(UtilsService);

And we can create a new method inside users service -

    getUsernames(): string[] {
        return this.utilsService.pluck(this.users, 'name');
    }

Nothing special here as we are using another service inside a service, something we normally do in Angular apps.

But now, we see that console says a test case failed.

The test case that failed was - 

    UsersService > removeUsers > should remove a user

And there is an error as well -

    No provider for UtilsService!

Well, if you take a look at the testing module that we created using TestBed, it makes sense that we are seeing this error because even though we have configured a testing module where we passed the UsersService class as the provider, this module still does not know anything about the UtilsService.

That's why it throws this error saying "No provider for UtilsService".

So, what if we provide the UtilsService in this testing module?

        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
            providers: [UserService, UtilsService]
        });

We see that the console now shows all tests as passed. but, this is not a good way to write tests.

Imagine if the Users service had a lot of other dependencies. In that case, we would have to know the inner workings of a lot of other classes just to test the Users service. This is not very isolated. This results in tight coupling and our tests become very brittle which means they can break easily.

Because, what if the UtilsService changed later? It will also impact the tests we have for the UsersService.

That is why we need to test classes in isolation. We just want to worry about the UsersService, and not about any other dependencies.

So, another way is to "MOCK" the service on which our service (which we are testing) is depending on.

What does Mocking means?

Mocking is the act of creating something that looks like the dependency but is something we control in our test.

What if we could create a "fake" UtilsService and use that in the tests? In that case, we would not need to care about the UtilsService at all inside the spec.ts file of UsersService.

# MOCKING A SERVICE

To mock the UtilsService, we can simply create an object that will have the same properties and methods as UtilsService.

Since the UsersService just uses the "pluck" function of the UtilsService, we can create an object in spec.ts file as - 

    const utilsServiceMock = {
        pluck: jest.fn(),
    }

So, this object has a "pluck" property with a value "jest.fn()". This will create a mock function.

And now, instead of providing the actual UtilsService, we can provide this "utilsServiceMock" by doing - 

    TestBed.configureTestingModule({
        providers: [UserService, {provide: UtilsService, useValue: utilsServiceMock}]
    });

So, the error is gone now.

But, we haven't written any tests for the getUsernames function in UsersService. Let's write it and see if this mock service is of any use or not.

    describe('getUsernames', () => { 

            it('should get usernames', () => {
                expect(userService.getUsernames()).toEqual(['foo']);
            });
        });

When we save the file, the above test will fail.

The console says that while we expected "['foo']", the actual value we got was undefined.

That's because when userService.getUsernames() is called, it in turn calls the pluck() method of the UtilsService. And since we have configured our test module such that it will use the "utilsServiceMock" instead of the real UtilsService, the pluck() method of "utilsServiceMock" does not do anything. In other words, it returns undefined. That's why the value received is "undefined" in the test but we expected ["foo"].

And here, we can tell our mock to give a specific value. We do that like this - 

    it('should get usernames', () => {
        utilsServiceMock.pluck.mockReturnValue(['foo']);
        expect(userService.getUsernames()).toEqual(['foo']);
    });

So, we use the "mockReturnValue" function to set a value that pluck() will return. And now, the test will pass.

So, we can control what value the pluck() function will return. And so, the benefit of using a fake UtilsService is that we do not depend on the real UtilsService. This also makes the code less brittle. It means, even if the inner working of UtilsService changes in the future, this will not break the tests for UsersService.

# SPYING

There is another way instead of using Mocking. That's using "Spying".

We saw that when we mock a service, we are basically replacing the real service with a fake one.

There is also a concept of "Spying". When spying, you take an existing service and "replace" only some methods. This is useful when you have a huge class and only want to mock certain methods (partial mocking). 

So, when we use the spy, then the "real" methods are called.

Spies are for when you want to test/check the functions being called by your code, and arguments being passed to them… hence the name!

Mocks on the other hand… mock data (or interactions) with code external to the unit being tested.

So, to spy on the UtilsService, we first have to provide it in the Testing Module - 


        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
            providers: [UserService,UtilsService]
        });

Now, just like the userService, we need to inject utilsService as well.


    let userService: UserService;
    let utilsService: UtilsService;
    beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
            providers: [UserService,UtilsService]
        });

        userService = TestBed.inject(UserService);
        utilsService = TestBed.inject(UtilsService);
    });

And now, inside the test for getUsernames() method, we can use the jest.spyOn method to spy on a specific method of the UtilsService.

    it('should get usernames', () => {
        jest.spyOn(utilsService, 'pluck'); <== SPYING

        userService.users = [{id: '3', name: 'foo'}];

        userService.getUsernames();

        expect(utilsService.pluck).toHaveBeenCalledWith(
            userService.users,
            'name'
        );
    });

So, we spy on the "pluck" method of the utilsService.

And then, when we call the getUsernames() method, we then expect the "pluck" method to be called and we also specify what arguments would be passed to this method when it will be called by the usersService.

So, we can see that in Spying, the real "pluck" method will be called of the UtilsService.

So, with mock you will mock a function which means you will not call the real function but a dummy. But with spy, you will spy on a function which means the real function is called and you will check what parameters are passed to this function or what it returns.