Let's refactor our users service to see how can we test RxJS streams in Angular.

This is the users service class after refactor -

    export class UserService {
        users$ = new BehaviorSubject<UserInterface[]>([]);

        addUser(user: UserInterface): void {
            this.users$.next([...this.users$.getValue(), user]);
        }

        removeUser(userId: string): void {
            const updatedUsers = this.users$.getValue().filter((user) => userId !== user.id);
            this.users$.next(updatedUsers);
        }
    }

As you can see, now, instead of a simple array, we are using a BehaviorSubject to keep track of the users. Whenever we have to emit a value using this BehaviorSubject, we are using the "next" function. The getValue() will give the last emitted value.

Let's also remove the UtilsService from the spec.ts file of UsersService as we don't need it anymore as we removed any reference to UtilsService from UsersService after the refactoring.

Now, if we run "npm run test", then we will see that there are some errors in the console. The errors say -

    Property "users" does not exist on the type "UsersService". Did you mean users$?

And it makes sense because the variable is now named "users$" and it is a BehaviorSubject. So, let's try to rename the variable in spec.ts to correct name.

But there is one issue.

In our spec.ts, we have - 

    userService.users$ = [{id: '3', name: 'foo'}];

Since it is a BehaviorSubject, we cannot just assign it like this. We have to use "next".

And after using .next(), ther are no errors now. But, the test cases for UsersService failed!

We see that in "addUser" test, we expected the value to be

    [{"id": "3", "name": "foo"}]

But, as per the console, it received - 

    {"_value": [], "closed": false, "currentObservers": [], "hasError": false, "isStopped": false, "observers": [], "thrownError": null}

Well, the reason is that we are not comparing the expectation with the value in the BehaviorSubject. We are comparing the expectation with the BehaviorSubject itself which have more properties than just the value.

To get a value out of it, we can use the getValue() method - 

    expect(userService.users$.getValue()).toEqual([{id: '3', name: 'foo'}]);

And you can see that it is very easy to test RxJS streams and there is nothing special that we have to do.

We can also use subscribe but there is a different way to use that which we will see in next section.
