So far, we saw how can we test the HTTP requests by mocking the requests and responses. Now, whenever we have HTTP calls related code in our project, we also have the code to handle the HTTP Errors. And ofcourse we would like to test that code as well.

Just like how we did in case of a success response, we have to store the error that we get when we make an HTTP call in some variable that is created outside the subscribe function.

As we know, subscribe not only handles a success response, but we can also handle error scenario. We just need to pass an object to it that has "next", and "error" properties, where both have a value as a callback function.

So, we can do the same here.

    let error: HttpErrorResponse | undefined;
    apiService.createTag('foo').subscribe({
        next: () => { },
        error: (e) => {
            error = e;
        }
    });

And now, we have to mock this request using "expectOne".

    const req = httpTestingController.expectOne('http://localhost:3004/tags');

What about the error? How can we throw an error using this "Req" object? Well, we can use the "flush" method again. The flush method does not accept only one argument. It can also accept a second argument which is an object where we can define things like what is the status code, status text etc. And this is where we can define a status code that is for an error. For example, 403, or 404.

    req.flush('Server Error', {
        status: 403,
        statusText: 'Unauthorized'
    });

And finally, we can write our "expect" statements.

        expect(error.status).toEqual(403);
        expect(error.statusText).toEqual('Unauthorized');

Note that "error" can be undefined as well so we can also add an if check before these expect lies.

        if (!error) throw new Error("Error needs to be defined");

        expect(error.status).toEqual(403);
        expect(error.statusText).toEqual('Unauthorized');

And well, that's how we test HTTP Errors.

