A component, unlike all other parts of an Angular application, combines an HTML template and a TypeScript class. The component truly is the template and the class working together. To adequately test a component, you should test that they work together as intended.

Such tests require creating the component's host element in the browser DOM, as Angular does, and investigating the component class's interaction with the DOM as described by its template.

In our project, we have a component named "Error Message". It is a very basic component with just one line of HTML - 

    <div data-test-id="message-container">{{message}}</div>

And in the .ts file, we just have one property - 

     @Input() message: string = 'Something went wrong';

Now, you might have noticed that in the div, we have added the "data-test-id" attribute. This is here for testing purpose only so that we can easily select a specific element of the component's template in our tests.

# PRE-CONFIGURATION

Now, as always, for tests, we need a "spec.ts" file. So, we create a new "errorMessage.component.spec.ts" file.

Now, inside it, just like how we did for services, we have to do some configuration before each test. In other words, we have to create a "beforeEach()" block.

    beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
            imports: [ErrorMessageComponent]
        });
    });

This is something we have done before. The difference is that before, we used the providers array, and now, we are using the imports array to configure our testing module because we are now dealing with a component, not a service.

Now, there is a method we may call named compileComponents(). It is not necessary all the time.

        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
            imports: [ErrorMessageComponent]
        }).compileComponents();

What does this do?

The compileComponents object is called to compile your component's resources like the template, styles, etc. 

If you're using webpack (if configured properly), the build will compile the templateUrls into inline templates and styleUrls to styles. So there is no need to compileComponents because it's just like you're using template and styles even though you're not.

Like in case of service testing, we also need to get an instance of the component that we can use in each of our tests. And for that, we have to create a new property of type "ErrorMessageComponent" outside the beforeEach.

But, how do we get a component instance? For that, we use something known as the "ComponentFixture".

The ComponentFixture is a test harness for interacting with the created component and its corresponding element.

    let component: ErrorMessageComponent;
    let fixture: ComponentFixture<ErrorMessageComponent>;

    beforeEach(() => {
        TestBed.configureTestingModule({
            imports: [ErrorMessageComponent]
        }).compileComponents();

        fixture = TestBed.createComponent(ErrorMessageComponent);
        component = fixture.componentInstance;
        fixture.detectChanges();
    });

The createComponent method freezes the current TestBed definition, closing it to further configuration. You cannot call any more TestBed configuration methods, not configureTestingModule(), nor get(), nor any of the override... methods. If you try, TestBed throws an error.

The "fixture.detectChanges()" is a very important line to keep in mind when testing Angular components. This will trigger a change detection cycle for this component.

And now, we are all set to start writing the tests.

# WRITING TESTS

Our first test can be as simple as checking if the component was created or not.

    it('creates a component', () => {
        expect(component).toBeTruthy();
    });

As we have written in our component, if the "message" is not provided from outside, its default value will be 'Something went wrong'.

So, let's test that.

Now, to test that, we need get hold of the div inside which we show this message. And here we will use the "data-testid" attribute that we had added to this div.

    it('should render a default error message', () => {
        const messageContainer = fixture.debugElement.query(By.css('[data-testid="message-container"]'));

        expect(messageContainer.nativeElement.textContent).toBe('foo');
    });

The figture.debugElement.query is used to query an element from the template of the component. Inside this method, we are specifying the css selector.

Note that we are writing a test that will fail because we are expecting the div to have "foo" as the text but it is actually something else. This is something you should always do. That is, always write a test that fails first. Then update it so that it passes.

We will see the console says the expected is "foo", but it received "Something went wrong". So, we can update the test accordingly.

    it('should render a default error message', () => {
        const messageContainer = fixture.debugElement.query(By.css('[data-testid="message-container"]'));

        expect(messageContainer.nativeElement.textContent).toBe('Something went wrong');
    });

Now, let's try to change the "message" property and then write a test if the div shows the changed message or not.

How do we change the value of a property in a component?

Well, we do that using the "component." notation.

    it('should render a custom error message', () => {

        component.message = "Email is already taken!";

        const messageContainer = fixture.debugElement.query(By.css('[data-testid="message-container"]'));

        expect(messageContainer.nativeElement.textContent).toBe('Email is already taken!');
    });

So, based on the above test, it should pass right? Because we are setting the value of "message" to be "Email is already taken!" and we are expecting the same to be the text of the div.

When we save, we see that the test fails. The console says that we expected "Email is already taken!" to be the message but it is actually "Something went wrong". Wait what? 

But we did change the value right?

Well, that's because we have to trigger the change detection manually after we changed the property of a component. And we do that using "fixture.detectChanges()".

    it('should render a custom error message', () => {

        component.message = "Email is already taken!";

        fixture.detectChanges(); <- TRIGGERING CHANGE DETECTION

        const messageContainer = fixture.debugElement.query(By.css('[data-testid="message-container"]'));

        expect(messageContainer.nativeElement.textContent).toBe('Email is already taken!');
    });

And now, the test will pass.