So far, we have seen a very simple example of a component that has just one property and we saw how we can write a couple of simple tests.

But, let's take it one step further. Let's have a component that is a bit more like a real component in a real angular app. That is, it has various @Input() properties, @Output() propertties, dependencies, methods, ngOnInit and more.

In our project, we have a "Pagination" component which is just that. And now, we will see how can we write tests for testing such fairly complex components.

# PREPARING THE SPEC.TS FILE

As always, the spec.ts file will have some configurations before the tests. These are the same as for Error Component.

    describe('PaginationComponent', () => {
        let component: PaginationComponent;
        let fixture: ComponentFixture<PaginationComponent>;

        beforeEach(() => {
            TestBed.configureTestingModule({
                imports: [PaginationComponent]
            }).compileComponents();

            fixture = TestBed.createComponent(PaginationComponent);
            component = fixture.componentInstance;
            fixture.detectChanges();
        });


        it('creates a component', () => {
            expect(component).toBeTruthy();
        });
    });

# MOCKING THE DEPENDENCIES

And once you save the file, the test will fail. Because, remember that in Pagination Component, we have a dependency on "UtilsService". That is why, the console will say -

    No provider for UtilsService!

Now, one way is to add the UtilsService in the providers array of our testing module. But, remember that we always want to test in isolation. We want to fully isolate the Pagination Component from other dependencies since the dependencies can be changed. We do not want the tests of our component to break if the dependencies change.

So, we can mock the dependencies instead.

And we have done this before. So, the syntax remains the same.

First, we define a mock object with the "range" method since that's the method from UtilsService that we are using in our pagination component.

    let mockUtilsService = {
        range: () => [1,2,3,4,5]
    }

Note that the range function in our mock object simply returns an array. It does not do any calculations at all.

Now, in our providers, we want to use this as the provider of UtilsService - 

    providers: [{provide: UtilsService, useValue: mockUtilsService}]

And boom! We are done and the error goes away.

# SETTING PROPERTIES

If you see, inside the Pagination component, even though we are getting some Inputs from outside, we will only use them once, inside the NgOnInit. It means, the code inside NgOnInit will only run once when the component is initialized.

This also means it does not matter if later we changed the values of these inputs because it will not re-run the ngOnInit code.

Now, to actually set some values for these @Input properties in our test file, we can simply set their values in beforeEach, before the detectChanges() runs - 

        fixture = TestBed.createComponent(PaginationComponent);
        component = fixture.componentInstance;
        component.total = 50;
        component.limit = 10;
        component.currentPage = 1;
        fixture.detectChanges();

And now, let's write our first test that checks how many <li> elements are rendered in the DOM.

    it('renders correct pagination', () => {
        const pageContainers = fixture.debugElement.queryAll(By.css('[data-testid="page-container"]'));

        expect(pageContainers.length).toBe(5);
    });

As we have assigned the attribute "data-testid" to the <li> element, we can query all the elements with this id, and then, we simply need to check how many elements are there.

Since the "range()" function (in the mock object) returns an array of length 5, it means there should be 5 <li> elements in the DOM. And that's what we are checking with the above test.

Another thing we can add in this test is a check if the first <li> element has "1" inside it or not - 

    expect(pageContainers.at(0)?.nativeElement.textContent).toBe(" 1 ");

Note that we are using a "?." as the element may not be present in the DOM so in that case it will be undefined.



