Apart from the Components & Services, another very common Angular concept is a "Directive". In fact, the "Components" are also directives. Another type is "Attribute Directive". An attribute directive modifies the behavior of an element, component or another directive. Its name reflects the way the directive is applied: as an attribute on a host element.

So, how do we test our Attribute directives?

We know that an attribute directive is something we use as an attribute on an element. And we use a directive in various components.

It is not ideal to find and test all the compnents that use the directive. A better way is to create an artificial test component that will demonstrate all the ways to apply this directive.

In our current project, we have a "Highlight Directive". It is a simple directive which takes the "bgColor" as input and then sets that as the background color of the element on which this directive is used. if "bgColor" is not used, then this directive will use the default background color "lightgray".

Another thing this directive does is that it sets the "customProperty" on an element to "true". This is just something we added to write tests around it.

And now, let's see how can we test this directive. Ofcourse, we will need a spec.ts file first.

# THE ARTIFICIAL TEST COMPONENT

We discussed that a better way to test the full functionality of a directive is by creating a Test component that we use only in our tests.

So, inside the directive.spec.ts file, we can create a new component (we won't export it since it is used only inside this file).

    @Component({
    standalone: true,
    template: ` <h2 highlight="yellow">Something Yellow</h2>
      <h2 highlight>The Default (Gray)</h2>
      <h2>No Highlight</h2>
      <input #box [highlight]="box.value" value="cyan" />`,
    imports: [HighlightDirective],
  })
  class TestComponent {}

And now, all our tests will be focused around this component only. Note that in the template, we have three h2 elements and one input element. The first h2 element uses the directive and passes a color as "yellow". The second h2 element uses the directive but does not pass any color value. The third h2 element does not use the directive at all. And finally, the input element sets the color as the value entered in the input box.

And that's pretty much it. Now, let's write some tests.

# PRE-CONFIGURATION

Before we run the tests, we need to configure the testing module for each test. Something we have done in case of component testing.

    describe("HighlightDirective", () => {

        let fixture: ComponentFixture<TestComponent>;
        beforeEach(() => {
            TestBed.configureTestingModule({
                imports: [HighlightDirective, TestComponent]
            });

            fixture = TestBed.createComponent(TestComponent);
            fixture.detectChanges();
        });
    });

# WRITING TESTS

Let's write our first test which will simply test that there are three elements that use the Highlight Directive. Note that in template, we have four elements but only three use the directive.

    it('should have three highlighted elements', () => {

        const elements = fixture.debugElement.queryAll(By.directive(HighlightDirective));

        expect(elements.length).toBe(4);
    });

Note how we can also query the template using the Directive name. So, this will return a list of elements that use the Highlight Directive.

Let's write some tests for the individual elements.

The first h2 element should have a background color yellow.

    it('should have 1st <h2> with a background color "yellow"', () => {

        const elements = fixture.debugElement.queryAll(By.directive(HighlightDirective));

        expect(elements.at(0)?.nativeElement.style.backgroundColor).toBe("yellow");
    });

Again, that is a pretty simple test because we can again get a list of all the elements that use the Highlight Directive and then we just need to test if the first element, which is the first h2, has a background color of yellow.

Let's do the same for the second. But, let's take our test one step further. Instead of directly checking that the second h2 has a background color of lightgray, what if we want to test if the second element has a background color same as the "defaultColor" property of the Highlight Directive?

The reason why we might want to do this is because we can later change the default color and that will break the test if we hardcode the default color in the expect() as "lightgray".


    it('should have 2nd <h2> with a default background color', () => {
        const elements = fixture.debugElement.queryAll(By.directive(HighlightDirective));

        const directive = elements.at(1)?.injector.get(HighlightDirective) as HighlightDirective;

        expect(elements.at(1)?.nativeElement.style.backgroundColor).toBe(directive.defaultColor);
    });

So, here, we added one extra line - 

    const directive = elements.at(1)?.injector.get(HighlightDirective) as HighlightDirective;

Angular adds a directive to the injector of the element to which it is applied. Here, we are using the injector of the second h2 to get its HighlightDirective instance and its defaultColor.

Let's finally write a test for the input element. We want to make sure that the input element's background color is the same as the "value" property.

    it('should bind <input> background to the "value" color', () => {
        const elements = fixture.debugElement.queryAll(By.directive(HighlightDirective));

        const input = elements[2].nativeElement as HTMLInputElement;

        expect(input.style.backgroundColor).toBe('cyan');

        input.value = "green";

        input.dispatchEvent(new Event('input'));

        fixture.detectChanges();

        expect(input.style.backgroundColor).toBe('green');
    });

This one is a big longer than other tests.

Let's break it down.

First, we get the input element by querying the template. This is something we know.

Then, we are testing that the background color should be "cyan". This is the initial value for the input element's "value" property.

Next, we have these lines - 

        input.value = "green";

        input.dispatchEvent(new Event('input'));

        fixture.detectChanges();

First, we update the "value" property to "green". Now, to make Angular respond to the input value change, we need to manually dispatch an 'input' event. And finally, we need to call the "detectChanges()" method to trigger change detection.

The final line simply checks that after we set the value, the background color is now "green".

Let's also write a test that checks the third h2 element, which does not use a Highlight Directive, does not have a property named "customProperty". Note that we added this property for all the elements that use highlight directive.

    it('h2 element that does not use the directive should not have a customProperty', () => {
            const h2 = fixture.debugElement.query(By.css("h2:not([highlight])"));

            expect(h2.properties['customProperty']).toBeUndefined;
        });


When we write - 

    By.css('h2:not([highlight])') 
    
It helps find h2 elements that do not have the directive.

Similarly, if we want to query all the elements that do not use this directive, we can say -

    By.css('*:not([highlight])')

When we write -

    h2.properties

It will get us a map of property names to property values for an element.

And that's why in that map, we can check if customProperty exists or not.