It is important to understand that "Dynamic Components" in general mean that you want to display some component Dynamically.

It means that the component is not always there but only there when something specific happens on the page. Therefore, you typically want to control programmatically when that component should show up.

The simplest way of doing that is what we are currently doing with our Alert Model component. That is, using "NgIf" directive. Using NgIf, the component only shows up when there is an "Error". 

Otherwise, it is not even there in the DOM if the condition is not met.

Using "NgIf" we add or remove a component from the DOM in a "declarative" manner which means, we are not concerned about how that component is loaded and removed from DOM. That's somethinbg NgIf does under the hood. 

But, there is also an "Imperative" way of loading Components Dynamically. "Imperative" means that we write all the logic to Add or Remove the component from the DOM based on some condition.

# IMPORTANT NOTE ABOUT "DYNAMIC COMPONENT LOADER"

This used to be a helper utility which does not exist any more. But now, it is kind of like a general concept of creating a component in code and then manually attaching it to DOM.

So, in this approach, the "Developer" is responsible for managing and adding the component to the DOM.

# FINISHING THE NGIF APPROACH

Before we start with the programmatic approach, let's just add some final touches to our NgIf approach since while we show up a Modal when there is an error, nothing happens when we click the Close button. 

Ideally, when we click the button, the modal should disappear.

That should not be difficult though. We just need to emit an event when we click that button. This is something we can do using @Output decorator.

Inside the alert component file, we can add - 

    // Event to emit when close button is clicked
    @Output() close = new EventEmitter();

    // Method executed on click of the close button or the backdrop
    onClose() {
        // Emit the event
        this.close.emit();
    }

And in the html file - 

    <div class="backdrop" (click)="onClose()"></div>

    <div class="alert-box">
        <p> {{ message }}</p>
        <div class="alert-box-actions">
            <button type="button" class="btn btn-primary" (click)="onClose()">Close</button>
        </div>
    </div>

So, we add the "onClose" method on both the button click and also on the backdrop click so that the modal disappears on both the actions.

The final step is to now catch this event in the component where we are using this Alert Modal.

So, in the Auth Component html, we can do -

    <app-alert 
        (close)="error = '';" 
        [message]="error" 
        *ngIf="error"
    ></app-alert>

So, when the close button is clicked, we simply reset the "error" message back to an empty string and this means the "NgIf" condition is no longer true and so, the component will be removed from the DOM.

It is highly recommended to use the NgIf approach whenever we can becase it makes us write little to no code of our own in the component.ts file. 

We rarely need the Imperative approach but it is good to understand that as well.