Let's create a new "private" method in our Auth Component file which will have all the code to programmatically create an Alert Component and then render it on the page.

    private showErrorAlert(errorMessage : string) {}

It will receive an error message as argument.

And since we get this error message whenever the authentication fails, we can call this method inside the "error" block of our subscription.

        error: error => {
            this.requestInProgress = false;
            this.showErrorAlert(error);
        }

Note that we no longer need to store "error" inside some local variable since now, we will be adding or removing the component from the code itself. So, we won't use the NgIf directive to do that.

# DYNAMIC COMPONENTS BEFORE ANGULAR 16

Now the question is, how can we get hold of an instance of the "Alert Component" in our "Auth Component" file?

Well, you may say that since "Alert Component" is simply a typescript class, we can maybe just get an instance of it as - 
    
    private showErrorAlert(errorMessage : string) {
        const alertCmp = new AlertComponent(); <- WON'T WORK
    }

And well, this is a valid code because there is no error thrown. But, this is a valid code in "Typescript", not in "Angular". Angular needs more than just a simple object like this. 

The way we do this is by letting Angular create this component for us. For this, Angular gives us something called a "Component Factory".

We can inject it in our Auth Component -

    constructor(private cfr: ComponentFactoryResolver){}

-------------------------------------------------------------
NOTE - In Angular 13 and above, you will see the Deprecated warning when using the "ComponentFactoryResolver" because in newer versions, this process has been simplified as we will see later.
-------------------------------------------------------------

Now, we can use this "cfr" service now to get the "Alert Component Factory" by doing -

    private showErrorAlert(errorMessage : string) {
        const alertComponentFactory = this.cfr.resolveComponentFactory(AlertComponent)
    }

A "Factory" is an object for creating other objects. So, from this "AlertComponent" Factory, we can create an "AlertComponent" instance.

The next step is to now think of where we want this component to be displayed in our template.

For that, we can add an "ng template" element at the place where we want our Alert Component to be rendered. And then, we can add a template reference variable to it.

    <ng-template #alertModal></ng-template>

And now, in the Auth Component file, we can use ViewChild to get access to this ng template.

    @ViewChild('alertModal', {read: ViewContainerRef})
    public alertComponentContainer !: ViewContainerRef;


Note that we are using "read" property of @ViewChild here. Now, with {read: someType} we tell angular what type should be returned from the Element with the mentioned template variable.

Note that if we do not provide the "read" paramter, then by default, @ViewChild() will return the "ElementRef" instance if there is no component applied (for example in our case) or the component instance if there is a component applied.

In our case, we specifically want the "ViewContainerRef" because it lets us access some methods such as "createComponent", "detach", "remove" etc to render components on the DOM or to remove components from the DOM. And that's exactly what we want here.

So now, we can do -

    private showErrorAlert(errorMessage : string) {
        // Programmatically create the Alert Component
        const alertComponentFactory = this.cfr.resolveComponentFactory(AlertComponent)

        // Clear Anything that might've been rendered in the ng template
        this.alertComponentContainer.clear();

        // Render the "Alert Component" in the ng template
        this.alertComponentContainer.createComponent(alertComponentFactory);
    }

So, basically, we first get access to the "Component Factory", then we cleared the ng template so that we can be sure that there is nothing at that place, and then, we rendered our Alert Component at the place where we have the ng template in the .html file.

And now with this change done, we can see that if there is an error while login, we will get the Alert Modal on the page.

But, there is an issue here. We cannot see the "Error message" and nothing happens when we click close button. And that's not a surprise since we haven't yet passed the "errorMessage" to the Alert Component and we are also not yet handling "close" Event emitted by the Alert Component.

So, that's what we are going to do next.