Since we are creating and rendering our Alert Component in the .ts file, how can we pass data to the component and also react to the events that are emitted from the component?

First, let's take care of passing the "errorMessage" to the Alert component.

We can do that quite easily.

Now that we have created our Alert Component using the ViewContainerRef, we can store it in some variable.

    const alertCmpRef = this.alertComponentContainer.createComponent(alertComponentFactory);

And now, on this "alertCmpRef", we can use a property named "instance" which gives us an instance of the AlertComponent. And on that instance, we can access all the properties that the "AlertComponent" has. 

For now, it has only two properties -> "message" and "close". In the Alert Component file, "message" has @Input() decorator and "close" has an @Output decorator.

But we don't even need these decorators anymore because these are only required when we are passing data and handling events using the template files. Here, we are not adding the Alert Component using template but rather using the .ts file. So, we can remove @Input() and @Output decorators from the Alert Component.

  export class AlertComponent {

    // Message to show in the Alert Modal
    message !: string;

    // Event to emit when close button is clicked
    close = new EventEmitter();

    // Method executed on click of the close button or the backdrop
    onClose() {
      // Emit the event
      this.close.emit();
    }

  }

So, to set the value of the "message" property, all we do is - 

    alertCmpRef.instance.message = errorMessage;

So, that's one issue solved.

For the "close" property, we don't just set it to some value or function like we did for "message".

We want to "listen" to the "close" event because this is emitted when close button gets clicked. And as the button gets clicked, the Alert Component should be removed from the DOM.

For that, we can do this - 

    this.closeSub = alertCmpRef.instance.close.subscribe({
      next: (data : any )=> {
        this.closeSub.unsubscribe();
        this.alertComponentContainer.clear()
      }
    });

    ngOnDestroy(): void {
      this.closeSub?.unsubscribe();
    }

And well, now, our component should be fully functional.

And that's how we can programmatically create, render and remove components in Angular. Note that all these steps were before Angular 13. Now, we will see how to do it in newer versions of Angular.
