So, we are done with learning about Template Driven Forms in Angular and how can we access the form data, change the form data, submit the forms, handle validations and more.

The other type of forms that Angular supports are the "Reactive Forms". And the biggest difference between the Template-Driven Forms and Reactive Forms is that the main logic for the "Reactive Forms" is present in the component.ts file. 

On the other hand, in case of Template-Driven forms, most of the logic is present in the component.html file and we use various directives in TD Forms to access form data. 

Reactive Forms are also known as "Model-Driven" Forms. 

Reactive forms use an explicit and immutable approach to managing the state of a form at a given point in time.

Explicit because you define the form structure and its controls explicitly in the template.

Immutable because each change to the form state returns a new state, which maintains the integrity of the model between changes. This approach allows for easier state tracking and change detection since every state update is fresh.

Reactive forms are built around observable streams, where form inputs and values are provided as streams of input values, which can be accessed synchronously.

Every form control (FormControl, FormGroup, or FormArray) in Angular's Reactive Forms is backed by an observable stream. These observables emit new values whenever the form control’s state changes (e.g., when a user types in a field, validation changes, or a new value is set programmatically). This observable nature allows you to react to changes in real-time, enabling dynamic validation, error handling, or other UI updates.

The values can be accessed synchronously without waiting for an observable to emit. This is done using the "value" property of a control.

Template-driven forms let direct access modify data in your template, but are less explicit than reactive forms because they rely on directives embedded in the template, along with mutable data to track changes asynchronously. 

# SETTING UP REACTIVE FORMS IN OUR ANGULAR APP

There are three main steps to start using Reactive Forms.

    1. Register the "ReactiveFormsModule" in your application. This module declares the reactive-form directives that you need to use reactive forms.

    2. Generate a new component and instantiate a new "FormGroup" or a "FormControl".

    3. Register the "FormGroup" or "FormControl" in the template.


The first step is to import ReactiveFormsModule from the @angular/forms package and add it to your app.module.ts file's imports array. We no longer need "FormsModule" since here we are going to use Reactive Forms, not Template-Driven Forms.

    imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        ReactiveFormsModule <- HERE
    ],
