Now, we can start defining the structure of our form. And remember that this is a Reactive Form so the structure is defined in the .ts file, not in HTML.

Typically, when we use Reactive Forms, we are dealing with some complex forms with a lot of controls. So, we group the controls into a single form object programmatically, something we did in Template-Driven Approach using "NgForm" directive. You can think of this as the form element that we have in HTML which has all the controls inside of it. It also has other Form Groups inside it but that is a concept to talk about later.

Here, in .ts file, we create a new variable of type "FormGroup".

    import { FormGroup } from '@angular/forms';
    signupForm: FormGroup;

Now, we are not going to initialize it instantly. A good place to do it is on ngOnInit. So that when the component is loaded, we initialize the form object.

    ngOnInit() {
        // Initialize the Form
        this.signupForm = new FormGroup({});
    }

Every "FormGroup" comprises of various "FormControls". And a FormControl is simply a key value pair where the "key" is the name of the form control and the "value" is the definition of the Form Control.

In our project, we have a simple form with three form controls - Username, Email and Gender.

So, we can easily define these controls in our FormGroup by - 

    ngOnInit() {
        // Initialize the Form
        this.signupForm = new FormGroup({
            username: new FormControl(''),
            email: new FormControl(''),
            gender: new FormControl('male') <- DEFAULT VALUE
        });
    }

The "new FormControl" constructor takes a few arguments. The first one is the default or the initial value of the form control. Here, empty string just means there is no value initialy. This is useful is we want to give some default value initially to a form control. There are other arguments passed to this constructor as well but for now, let's keep it simple.

# SYNCING THE HTML AND THE FORM

Now that we have created the structure in the .ts file, the next step is to bind this form with the form in HTML. And that's pretty straightforward.

Just by defining form in .ts file we cannot tell Angular to infer automatically which form we are talking about. We have to explicitly tell Angular what form we want to bind.

Because as we know, by default, as soon as Angular sees the form element in HTML, it automatically tries to create a form object. But here, we want it to bind the form with our own form object that we created in .ts file.

And for that, we can use a directive named "formGroup" on the form element.

    <form [formGroup]="signupForm">

This tells Angular that we want it to use the formGroup which we created and don't infer automatically as it did in Template-Driven forms.

The next step is to manually tell Angular to bind certain form controls.

Again, we will use a directive and this one is named "formControlName". As it suggests, we will pass it the name of the form control and this name should be same as one of the "keys" in the FormGroup object that we created. This way, Angular knows with what FormControl to bind this control.

    <input
        type="text"
        id="username"
        class="form-control"
        formControlName="username"
    >

Note that we are not using property binding here because we just need to pass a string value to this directive.

And now, we have connected the form group we created programmatically with the form we have in HTML.

If you inspect the form in browser, you will see that Angular now has applied the same classes to form controls that it did in Template-driven approach like "ng-touched", "ng-dirty", "ng-invalid" and so on.

So it means, Angular is now tracking the inputs based on the form group we created programmatically.

# SUBMITTING THE FORM

Let's now learn how we can submit a Reactive Form. 

In Template-driven Form approach, we added an (ngSubmit) event handler to the form element which class a method in typescript.

In Reactive Forms, we do the same thing.

    <form [formGroup]="signupForm" (ngSubmit)="onSubmit()">

But, the only difference is that, we no longer have to get a reference to the form object using @ViewChild in the typescript file. Because, we already have the form object created in typescript. 

If we console.log this formGroup object, we will see in browser console that we have all the data about our form. We have that "controls" property which has each control object.

We have properties like "touched", "pristine", "valid", "invalid".

We even have the "value" property which is the object with key as the formControl name and value as its value when the form was submitted.

    onSubmit(){
        console.log(this.signupForm);
    }

In fact, if you compare the NgForm and FormGroup side by side when you console log both on submission of Template driven and reactive forms, you will notice something.

In Template-Driven Approach, the "NgForm" object has a "form" property of type "FormGroup". And this is the same FormGroup object that we explictly create in Reactive Forms programmatically.

So, the most important difference is clear here. In Template-driven approach, Angular will handle this form group creation.

In Reactive Forms, we handle the creation of this form group.