Now that we know how we can create a Reactive Form and submit it, the next step would be to add validations to the form controls like how we did in the Template-driven Forms.

In the Template-driven approach, to add a "required" validator, we just had to add a "required" directive to the form control. But, that won't work in the Reactive Approach. The reason is that we are not configuring our form in the HTML in Reactive Approach. So, all the configuration has to happen in the component.ts file only.

And that's the reason why when we define a form control using "new FormControl()" constructor, this constructor takes some more arguments other than the default value.

The other arguments are for the validators.

Let's say we just want to add a single Validator to a field. We do that using the "Validators" class of the @angular/forms.

    import { FormControl, FormGroup, Validators } from '@angular/forms';
    ngOnInit() {
        // Initialize the Form
        this.signupForm = new FormGroup({
        username: new FormControl('', Validators.required),
        email: new FormControl(''),
        gender: new FormControl('male')
        });
     }

So, as you can see, on the "username" field, we added a "required" validator using the "Validators" class. 

Note that "required" here is a static method in this class. But we don't want to execute it immediately when we define a form. We want Angular to handle its execution whenever the form control value changes. That's why we pass a reference to this method instead of directly calling it as "Validators.required()".

Sometimes, we want to pass more than one Validators to a form control.

For example, for the "email" field, we want to have "required" as well as "email" validation.

And so, instead of a single Validator, we can pass an array of validators as the second argument to the "FormControl" constructor.

    this.signupForm = new FormGroup({
      username: new FormControl('', Validators.required),
      email: new FormControl('', [Validators.required, Validators.email]),
      gender: new FormControl('male')
    });

To make it more readable, instead of directly passing the array of validators, we can pass an object instead which looks like this -

    email: new FormControl('', {
        validators: [Validators.required, Validators.email]
    }),

In this way, anyone who sees this code can understand that there are two validators applied on this form control. Another benefit of having this object is that we can set other properties. For example, if we want to set when the validators should be invoked, we can use the "updateOn" property - 

    email: new FormControl('', {
        validators: [Validators.required, Validators.email],
        updateOn: 'blur'
    })

The default behavior is to run the validators on each change in the input. But, let's say we want to execute the validators only when the user focuses out of that input, then we can set "updateOn" to "blur". Or maybe we want the validators to run only when the form is submitted, then we can set the "updateOn" property to "submit". The default value is "change".

# GETTING ACCESS TO FORM CONTROLS

In case of the Template-driven forms, we used to get a reference to the form control by doing something like 

        #username="ngModel"

And with this reference, we were able to show or hide error messages.

But, in Reactive Forms, we do this a bit differently.

In Reactive Forms, the only way to access a form control is via the form group that we have in the typescript file. So, we can do -

    <p
        class="text-danger"
        *ngIf="signupForm.get('username').invalid && signupForm.get('username').touched"
    >
        Please Enter a Username!
    </p>

So, on the "signupForm" Form Group that we have in Typescript file, we can access any control using "get()" method which accepts the name of the form control. And then, we can do the same as we did in the Template Driven Approach.

Now, one thing that you can also do is to show different error messages on different validations.

For example, "email" field has two validators on it - required and email.

So, if the field has been touched but nothing is entered, then required validation will fail. So we show some error message.

But, if something is entered in it, then while the required validation will pass, the email validation might fail if it is not a valid email format.

So, for this case, we want to show a different error message.

For that, we have an "errors" object for each Form Control which has the name of the validator as the key and a boolean flag as its value to show whether this validation passed or failed.

    <p
        class="text-danger"
        *ngIf="signupForm.get('email').invalid && signupForm.get('email').touched"
        >

        <!-- If "required" validation failed -->
        <span *ngIf="signupForm.get('email').errors?.['required']">
            Please enter an email!
        </span>

        <!-- If "email" validation failed -->
        <span *ngIf="signupForm.get('email').errors?.['email']">
            Enter a valid email!
        </span>
    </p>

So, as we can see, the overall paragraph has an *ngIf so that this element shows up only if the email field is invalid and it has been touched. 

But, inside it, we have two different conditions. 

The first span element only shows up if "required" validation fails.

The second span element shows up when "email" validation fails.

And finally, to make our error messages look better, we can also add a red border around the input field when it is invalid.

Again, we do that using the "ng-invalid" and "ng-touched" classes that Angular dynamically adds or removes from the input fields as the values change.

    input.ng-invalid.ng-touched {
        border: 1px solid red;
    }