Sometimes we want to group some controls together.

We did that in the Template-driven approach using the "ngModelGroup" directive.

In Reactive Forms, we do that in the component.ts file. 

We know that in Template Driven Forms, we could nest a Form Group inside a Form Group using "ngModelGroup" directive.

And to do the same thing in Reactive Forms, we can pass a new Form Group inside a FormGroup in component.ts file.

    ngOnInit() {
        // Initialize the Form
        this.signupForm = new FormGroup({

        // Form Group inside a Form Group
        userData: new FormGroup({
            username: new FormControl('', Validators.required),
            email: new FormControl('', [Validators.required, Validators.email])
        }),
        gender: new FormControl('male')
        });
    }


So here, we have a Form Group named "signupForm" which represents the overall form, and then, it has another Form Group inside it named "userData" which has two controls in it - "username" and "email".

And now, we have created grouped controls in Reactive Forms.

But, the work is not done yet.

if you open the page in browser, you will see the form is now having only the username and email fields. The gender control is just not there. And the console also has errors.

The console says "Cannot find control with name: 'username'".

And that makes sense because there is no control inside the overall signupForm that is named "username". All that it has right now is "userData" Form Group and "gender" Form Control.

So, just like the template-driven approach, we will wrap the "username" and "email" fields around a div or any other element.

And now, on this element, we will use a directive named "formGroupName". 

So now, the naming makes sense right?

    - The overall form has directive "formGroup"
    - The formGroup inside the overall form has the directive "formGroupName"
    - The formControl inside the overall form has the directive "formControlName"


    <div formGroupName="userData">
        // EMAIL AND USERNAME controls inside it
    </div>

The last piece of the puzzle is to get the error handling correct. Because, right now, we are getting access to the "username" and "email" form controls by doing - 

    signupForm.get('username')
    signupForm.get('email)

But, now that we have a formGroup inside "signupForm", we cannot directly access "username" or "email" like this.

The solution is very simple. We just have to do -

    signupForm.get('userData.username')
    signupForm.get('userData.email)

Note that we could have also done - 

    signupForm.get('userData').get('username')
    signupForm.get('userData').get('email')

But, just imagine if we have multiple nested form groups inside form groups. In that case, it will become too messy.

So, it is better to just add the formGroup name inside a single "get()" method and juse use the "dot".
