There are some situations when we have to add the "Form Controls" dynamically in the UI.

What that means is, there is some action from the user based on which we add a new form control like an input field.

Let's take an example in our project.

Let's say that in our form, we have a new "Hobbies" section. 

And in that section, initially, all that we have is a button that says "Add Hobby".

So what we want to do is, as soon as user clicks this button, a new input field should appear below it and user should be able to enter a hobby in it.

Similarly, to add another hobby, the user clicks the button again to add another field and so on.

So, this is a good example of adding form controls dynamically.

        <div>
          <h3>Your Hobbies</h3>
          <button 
            type="button" 
            class="btn btn-default"
            (click)="handleAddHobbyClick()"
          >
            Add Hobby
          </button>
        </div>

Now, in our typescript file, we want to register this in our form group because as we keep adding new input fields, we have to keep track of their values somewhere right?

To do this, we won't use a "FormGroup" or "FormControl" but rather a "FormArray". A "FormArray" is an array of Form elements. So, it can have Form Groups as well as Form Controls.

    ngOnInit() {
        // Initialize the Form
        this.signupForm = new FormGroup({

        // Form Group inside a Form Group
        userData: new FormGroup({
            username: new FormControl('', {
            validators: [
                Validators.required, 
                CustomValidators.forbiddenNameValidator(["admin", "sudo"])]
            }),
            email: new FormControl('', {
                validators: [Validators.required, Validators.email],
                asyncValidators: [CustomValidators.forbiddenEmailValidator()],
                updateOn: 'blur'
            })
        }),
        gender: new FormControl('male'),
        hobbies: new FormArray([]) <- HERE
        });
    }

Here, we are leaving the form array empty so that when the page loads, there is no form control to begin with. We will add them only when user clicks the button to add a hobby.

Now that we have registered it in our form group, we can now bind it in the HTML.

Remember that when we used a "FormControl", we used the directive "formControlName" to bind it in HTML.

When we used a "FormGroup", we used the directive "formGroupName" to bind it in HTML.

Similarly, now we are using a "FormArray" so we will use the directive "formArrayName" to bind it in HTML.

We have to add it to the wrapping parent element which will have all the dynamically added form controls.

    <div formArrayName="hobbies"> <-- DIRECTIVE
        <h3>Your Hobbies</h3>
        <button 
            type="button" 
            class="btn btn-default"
            (click)="handleAddHobbyClick()"
        >
            Add Hobby
        </button>
    </div>

Now that binding is done, let's add the main logic which will be to add a new input field when we click the button.

That is pretty simple.

    handleAddHobbyClick(){
        const newInput = new FormControl('', Validators.required);
        (this.signupForm.get('hobbies') as FormArray).push(newInput);
    }

So, when the button is clicked, then on the "FormArray" that we have, we call the "push" method to add a new Form Control. We also add a "required" validator to that new input.

But, it is important to also do the same in HTML.

Because, right now, we have programmatically added a new input to the "hobbies" Form Array. We also have to show this input in HTML now.

And that's simple. We just need to loop over this Form Array and show all the controls in HTML.

So, inside the parent div where we used "formArrayName", we will do -

    <div class="form-group">
        <input 
            type="text" 
            *ngFor="let hobbyControl of getHobbiesControls(); let i = index"
            class="form-control"
            [formControlName]="i"
        >
    </div>

Note that since we have to add "formControlName" directive to each form control that we want Angular to track, we will simply use the index here since that's the simplest way.

The "getHobbiesControls" is just a helper method that gives us the list of Form Controls inside this Form Array - 

    getHobbiesControls() {
        return (this.signupForm.get('hobbies') as FormArray).controls;
    }

It is done because this.signupForm.get('hobbies').controls will give error in HTML for new version of Angular.

And now, we have successfully added dynamic form controls to our form using Form Array.

If you are wondering how to access the values user enters, then just console log the form when you hit submit and check the "value" property.

It will have "hobbies" as the key and the value will be a simple Javascript/Typescript array with all the input values that user provided to the dynamically added input fields.

To make it even better, you can also add a delete option to each input field so that when it is clicked, that particular input field gets deleted.

    <div *ngFor="let hobbyControl of getHobbiesControls();let i = index" style="display: flex; gap: 16px; margin-top: 16px;">
        <input 
            type="text"
            class="form-control"
            [formControlName]="i"
        >
            <button class="btn btn-danger" (click)="deleteHobby(i)">Delete Hobby</button>
    </div>

So now, when we loop over the form controls in Form Array, we will have an input box as well as a delete button for each input box. And as we can see, on click of the delete button, we will pass the index of the input field to that method. And now, in the typescript file, we just do -

    deleteHobby(i: number) {
        (this.signupForm.get('hobbies') as FormArray).removeAt(i);
    }

And now, we have implemented dynamically removing of Form Controls as well.

And this is just one example. The Form Array can also take an array of Form Groups for more complex forms.

For example, if we have a skills section where each skill has an input box for the name,an input box for the experience and a button to delete the skill, then it is better to group these three things in a Form Group for each skill.

So, the possibilites are endless.