In the previous section, we created a custom validator that will check if the username is valid or not.

But, in real-world applications, we do not know beforehand what are the valid usernames and what are the invalid ones.

For example, we might want to restrict the user from choosing a username that is already taken by someone else. You might have seen this feature in almost every social media app where a username needs to be a unique name that no one else has.

And so, when a user enters something, an API call has to be made to fetch all the registered usernames and check if there is already a username present in the data base which is same as the one that user entered.

This is an asynchronous operation and takes some time. And so, if we have to create such a validator for our username field, we have to create a "Custom Asynchronous Validator".

These validators wait for the api response before returning error objects.

Let's create one in our project.

We will make sure email is something that is not already present in the database. Since we don't have any such database yet, we will just hardcode the email that is already taken and cannot be chosen again.


    forbiddenEmail = (control: FormControl): Promise<any> | Observable<any> => {
        return new Observable(observer => {
        // To mimic an async operation that waits for some time
        setTimeout(() => {
            if (control.value === 'test@test.com') {
                observer.next({'forbiddenEmail': true})
            }
            observer.complete()
        }, 1500)
        })
  }

So here, you can see that instead of returning a "ValidationErrors" object, this validator will return either a Promise or an Observable because this is an asynchronous validator.

And inside it, we are using setTimeout() so that we mimic the behaviour of an actual api call that will take a couple of seconds to return some response.

And so, when 1.5 seconds pass, we will compare the value in email field to the hard coded value 'test@test.com'. If there is a match, it means, this email is already chosen so we will use "next" method to emit an object with 'forbiddenEmail' as the key and "true" as the value.

Finally, we simply complete the observable. It is important that you complete it here because in a normal http call, since we will use httpClient, it automatically calls "complete" as soon as response is returned. But here, we have to manually do that otherwise the form will remain in pending state all the time.

Now, to show an error message to the user when email is forbiddne, we just do the same as we did for other validators - 

    <span *ngIf="signupForm.get('userData.email').errors?.['forbiddenEmail']">
        Email is already taken. Pleae enter a different email!
    </span>


It is also a good place to use RxJS since all that we are doing is to return an observable that either emits an object or null based on the value of the control.

So, we can say -

    forbiddenEmail = (control: FormControl): Promise<any> | Observable<any> => {
        // RXJS
        return of(control.value)
               .pipe(map(val => val === 'test@test.com' ? {'forbiddenEmail' : true} : null),
                     delay(1500))
    }

So here, you can see how short the code becomes using the RxJS operators.

Here "of" is an operator that converts the provided argument(s) into observable stream. And so, whatever the control value is, it is now an observable stream on which we can add the pipe() operator. And in this pipe, use "map" operator to take the emitted value from observable and compare it against the 'test@test.com' email. If both match, we return a new observable with emitted data as an object. Otherwise, the emitted data is null.

And finally, another operator we used in pipe() is "delay" which basically allows you to hold back values for a specified duration before they're released. So, only after 1.5 seconds, the data returned by the observable that map() returns will be available.
