When use use Asynchronous Validator on our form, something interesting happens if you inspect the email field.

Initially, the email field has "ng-invalid" class.

Then, when we add an email in it, it turns into ng-pending for a moment and then turns back to ng-valid.

That is because of the asynchronous validation. The form waits for the validator to run and then it decides whether the value in form control is valid or invalid. And for that waiting period, the state is "PENDING".

When we hit submit and "FormGroup" is printed in console, there is a "status" property which has three possible values - "VALID", "INVALID" and "PENDING". In fact, these three are also the values for "status" property of a "FormControl"

So, wouldn't it be great if we can react to these in our typescript file? Maybe if the form is in pending state, we will not allow the user to click it that time or maybe we will show a loader or something like that.

For that, we have an observable named "statusChanges" which is present for a FormGroup as well as for an individual FormControl.

And we can subscribe to it to react to the changes in the status.

    this.signupForm.statusChanges.subscribe(data => console.log(data));

    this.signupForm.get('userData.email').statusChanges.subscribe(data => console.log(data));

Similarly, there is another observable present on a FormGroup as well as a FormControl named "valueChanges". As the name suggests, we can use it to react to the changes to the "value" property on FormGroup or FormControl.

    this.signupForm.valueChanges.subscribe(data => console.log(data));

    this.signupForm.get('userData.email').valueChanges.subscribe(data => console.log(data));