In template driven forms, we also learned how can we have Cross Field Validators in our forms. That is, validators that depend on the value of multiple fields. In reactive forms, we can also have cross field validators. But the way we implement them is slightly different.

Let's say that we want to ensure the email and username are not the same. So, we want to have a cross field validator that checks if the email and username are the same. If they are, we want to show an error message.

As we know, a validator in Reactive Forms is simply a function that takes a form control as an argument and returns an object if the validation fails.

But here, we do not want a single form control as input. We want the form group as input which encloses the email and username form controls. So, we want to write a validator that takes the form group as input and returns an object if the validation fails.

So, let's create a new validator creation function in our custom validators class -

    public static sameEmailAsUsernameValidator(): ValidatorFn {
      return (form: FormGroup): ValidationErrors | null => {
        const email = form.get('email');
        const username = form.get('username');

        if (email && username && email.value && username.value && email.value === username.value) {
          return { "sameEmailAsUsername": true }
        }

        return null;
      }
    }

The only difference this time is that we are accepting a "FormGroup" as the input and not an "AbstractControl". There is no error here because the "FormGroup" extends "AbstractControl" class.

Now, where do we apply this validator? Well, we apply it not to the form controls but to the "userData" form group. Yes, a "FormGroup" also has a "validators" property where we can pass an array of validators. So, we can pass our custom validator here.

    userData: new FormGroup({
        username: new FormControl('', {
          ...
        }),
        email: new FormControl('', {
          ...
        })
        }, {
        validators: [CustomValidators.sameEmailAsUsernameValidator()] <- HERE
    })

Now, if the username is the same as the email, then the form will be invalid and you can see that in the browser console where the form tag will have a class "ng-invalid" if you enter the same username as the email. We can also disable the button that submits the form if the form is invalid -

    <button [disabled]="signupForm.invalid" class="btn btn-primary" type="submit">Submit</button>

And to show an error message below the username field, we can check for this validator -

    <p class="text-danger" *ngIf="signupForm.get('userData').errors?.['sameEmailAsUsername']">
        Username and email cannot be the same!
    </p>

And that's how we can do cross field validation in Reactive Forms. We just need to apply the validator to the enclosing form group or form array and not to the individual form controls.