In Angular 14 and above, the Reactive Forms are now "Typed" by default.

What does that mean?

To understand that, we need to go back to how we define Reactive Forms in Angular. With Angular reactive forms, you explicitly specify a form model. As a simple example, consider this basic user login form:

    const login = new FormGroup({
        email: new FormControl(''),
        password: new FormControl(''),
    });

We know that we can call properties like login.value, login.controls, login.patchValue etc to interact with this form. In previous Angular versions, many such apis included "any" type somewhere and so, interacting with the structure of the controls, or the values themselves, was not type-safe.

This means, previously, we could write -

    const emailDomain = login.value.email.domain;

And there would be no error even if there is no "domain" property on the "email".

But now, the Reactive Forms are strictly typed by default and so, the above code won't compile because "email" has no property named "domain".

In addition to the added safety, the types enable a variety of other improvements, such as better autocomplete in IDEs, and an explicit way to specify form structure.

Let's say we have -

    const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com');

This control will be automatically inferred to have the type -
    
    FormControl<string|null>
    
TypeScript will automatically enforce this type throughout the FormControl API, such as email.value, email.valueChanges, email.setValue(...), etc.

You might wonder: why does the type of this control include 'null'? This is because the control can become 'null' at any time, by calling reset:

    email.reset();
    console.log(email.value); // null

You can also make a Form Control "nonNullable" which means when you reset a control, it will reset to its initial value, not to 'null'.

    const email = new FormControl('angularrox@gmail.com', {nonNullable: true});

    email.reset();
    console.log(email.value); //angularrox@gmail.com

It is possible to specify the type, instead of relying on inference. 

Consider a control that is initialized to 'null'. Because the initial value is 'null', TypeScript will infer -

    FormControl<null>

which is narrower than we want.

    const email = new FormControl(null);

Maybe later, we want to set a string value like this -

    email.setValue('angularrox@gmail.com');

This will throw an error because Typescript infers the type of the FormControl value as 'null'. To fix this, we can should specify the type explicitly -

    const email = new FormControl<string|null>(null);

# OPTIONAL CONTROLS

Some forms have controls that may or may not be present, which can be added and removed at runtime. You can represent these controls using optional fields:

    interface LoginForm {
        email: FormControl<string>;
        password?: FormControl<string>;
    }

    const login = new FormGroup<LoginForm>({
        email: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
        password: new FormControl('', {nonNullable: true}),
    });

In above form, we explicitly specify the type as 'LoginForm', which allows us to make the password control optional. TypeScript will enforce that only optional controls can be added or removed.


# UNTYPED FORMS

Now, what if you do not want your Application's reactive forms to be strictly typed? Maybe you were on some previous Angular version and after upgrading to Angular 14 or above, you are seeing a lot of issues due to typed forms?

Well, Angular still supports "Non-Typed" forms. You just need to tweak your code a bit -

    const login = new UntypedFormGroup({
        email: new UntypedFormControl(''),
        password: new UntypedFormControl(''),
    });

If you go to the official code, you will find that this is how the type for the UntypedFormGroup is defined -

    export type UntypedFormGroup = FormGroup<any>;

So, here we can see it is a FormGroup with "any" type. This means, you can use it as you would use a FormGroup in previous Angular versions. And the same is the case with "UntypedFormControl", "UntypedFormArray", and "UntypedFormBuilder".