So far, our routes have been simple string values.

For example, '', 'users', 'servers' etc.

But, there are situations when we want to have dynamic routes.

For example, let's say that when we load the details of a user with id 1, the path is 'users/1' and UserComponent gets loaded.

Similarly, for a user with id 2, path is 'users/2' and so on.

So, how can we define such routes in the App Routing module file?

One way is to keep using static string values. For example:

    {path: 'users/1', component: UserComponent},
    {path: 'users/2', component: UserComponent},
    {path: 'users/3', component: UserComponent},

But, this is not a good approach. Because, as the users increase, we have to manually add more and more routes to this file and this is not an efficient way.

Another way is to pass Parameters to Routes which are dynamic.

As we see, the only thing that changes in each route above is the id. So, this id is a dynamic value. And no matter what the id is, the component that is loaded remains the same.

So, we can rewrite the route as -

    {path: 'users/:id', component: UserComponent},

Here ":id" tells Angular that we when we navigate to this path, we will provide Angular a value for this placeholder which is named "id".

Here, a colon ":" is telling Angular that "id" is a dynamic value. If we don't use a colon, it is simply a static path value and we cannot dynamically set the id in this path.

Do note that we can have any name here in the route. We can say "users/:userId" and there won't be any issue. 

Now once we do that, if you go to the browser and enter a path such as - 

    localhost:4200/users/1

You will see that it will load the UserComponent now. And the same happens if we type localhost:4200/users/2 or localhost:4200/users/3

So, it means, when we write "1" or "2" or "3" in the path, Angular knows that this is the value of the "id" parameter that we have set in the Route and so, angular replaces the ":id" part with "1" or "2" or "3".

And it does not matter whether you pass a number of word as the value of this "id" parameter. Whatever you pass, Angular will replace this "id" placeholder with that value.

So, localhost:4200/users/something is also a valid path at which UserComponent will get loaded.

Now the question is, how can get get access to the value of this "id" parameter when UserComponent gets loaded?

Because only if we know the value of "id" parameter, we can show the details of corresponding user, right?
