So, we entered this path in the URL - 

    localhost:4200/users/1

And it loads the User Component which just says these two lines for now - 

    User with ID _ID_ loaded.

    User name is _NAME_

We are not yet showing the ID and Name of the user because we don't yet know what is the ID of the user for which we are showing this component.

For that, we have to get hold of the value of "id" parameter that we sent in the URL.

So first, we have to know what is the currently active route. And as you might've guessed, we will again use the "activatedRoute" service here.

So, inside UserComponent, we inject the ActivatedRoute service.

    constructor(private route: ActivatedRoute) { }

Now, we get access to the currently loaded route. This "route" object has all the data about the currently loaded route. And one such data that it provides is - Route Parameters and their values.

We can see that if we console log this route object in the browser. You will see that it contains data about what component is loaded, what are the params, queryParams, url, title and so on.

To get the value of the "id" route parameter that we passed in the URL, we can say - 

    let id = this.route.snapshot.params['id']

So now, we will have the value that we passed in the URL.

Let's say we also want to pass the name as the route paramter. In that case, we can change the route in the app routing module as -

    {path: 'users/:id/:name', component: UserComponent}

So, it means, we are not limited to only have one route parameter in a path.We can have any number of route parameters.

And again, to access them insider UserComponent, we just do -

    let id  = this.route.snapshot.params['id'];
    let name = this.route.snapshot.params['name'];

