Apart from Route Parameters, we can also add "Query Parameters" to the URL.

Query Parameters are attached to the end of the URL and they are separated from the main URL using a question mark "?"

For example, 

    localhost:4200/users?role=author

Here, we passed a query parameter "role" to the URL which has a value "author". 

The thing with Query Parameters is that when we define our routes in the app routing module file, we don't have to manually specify that the URL may contain specific query parameters. Since query Parameters are optional.

But, in case of Route Parameters, we have to explcitly tell Angular that our Route will have a dynamic parameter value.

    localhost:4200/users/1
    localhost:4200/users/2
    ..... so on

Above is an example of the Route Parameter. We are passing a dynamic value at the end of the URL based on which we load the specific user's details. So, when we define this URL in the routing module file, we have to tell Angular that we expect such a value to be passed in the URL - 

    localhost:4200/users/:id 

# HOW TO PASS QUERY PARAMETERS TO THE URL USING ROUTERLINK

Let's say that we have a route defined in the routing file as - 

    {path: 'servers/:id/edit', component: EditServerComponent}


So, if we go to localhost:4200/servers/4/edit then it will let us edit the server with id = 4.

So far, we are not using query parameters. But, let's say that with this URL, we also want to send a query parameter which lets us know whether this server can be edited or not.

Normally, without considering query parameters, if we use routerLink in our HTML, we will set the URL as - 

    [routerLink]="['/servers', 5, 'edit']"

But, what if we now have to pass query parameters as well?

Should be do something like  - 

    ['/servers', 5, 'edit', "?", "allowEdit", "=", "1"]

NO! That't not how we pass query parameters in Angular when using routerLink.

To pass query parameters, we have to use another input property of the routerLink directive named "queryParams".

You can see at https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/main/packages/router/src/directives/router_link.ts that the router link directive accepts an Input property named "queryParams".

As we can see in the GitHub link, the queryParams expects an Input of type "Params". In other words, a javascript object with key as the param name and value as the param value.

So, we can do - 

    [routerLink]="['/servers', 5, 'edit']"
    [queryParams]="{allowEdit: '1'}"

And now, when we click on this routerLink, we will see that the browser URL will change to -

    http://localhost:4200/servers/5/edit?allowEdit=1

And that's how we pass Query Parameters using RouterLink.
        
There is no limitation on how many key-value pairs you can have in the queryParams property.


# HOW TO PASS FRAGMENTS TO THE URL USING ROUTERLINK

Apart from the Route Parameters and Query Parameters, another thing that we can pass to the URL is a "FRAGMENT".

What is a fragment?

A fragment is an optional part at the end of the URL which starts with a hash "#" symbol. Generally, we use fragments to quickly jump to a specific part of the page.

For example, localhost:4200/servers/5/edit#serverName

To pass a fragment, we have yet another Input property that the routerLink directive accepts - fragment.

And this accepts a single string. So we can pass only a single fragment in a URL.

    [routerLink]="['/servers', 5, 'edit']"
    [queryParams]="{allowEdit: '1'}"
    fragment="serverName"

And now, the final URL will be - 

    http://localhost:4200/servers/5/edit?allowEdit=1#serverName

And that's how we pass Fragments to the URL using routerLink directive.

# HOW TO PASS QUERY PARAMETERS & FRAGMENTS TO THE URL PROGRAMMATICALLY

So far, we saw how we can pass the Query Parameters & Fragments to the URL using the routerLink directive. But, how can we do the same thing in the ts file? In other words, how to do it programmatically using the Angular Router?

We know that if we have to naviagte using the Angular Router, we do - 

    this.router.navigate(['/servers', id, 'edit'])

Now, we want to pass a Query Parameter to this URL named "allowEdit" with value as "1".

For that, we can use the second argument to the navigate method which is an object. And this object has various predefined properties that we can set. Previously, we used the "relativeTo" property in this object. Now, we will use the "queryParams" property.

So, just like RouterLink directive's queryParams property, we pass an object to the "queryParams" property of Angular Router.

    this.router.navigate(['/servers', id, 'edit'], {
      queryParams: {allowEdit: '1'}    
      })


And what about Fragments? Well, as you might have guessed, for that, we have another property named "fragment"

    this.router.navigate(['/servers', id, 'edit'], {
      queryParams: {allowEdit: '1'},
      fragment: 'serverName'
    })

And that's it. That is how we can do the same thing programmatically which we did with routerLink.


