So far we have covered a lot in Routing.

But, one thing that we haven't covered yet, and what's very important, is to handle those routes that don't exist.

For example, what if I go to localhost:4200/something?

In this case, since we don't have any such Route defined, it will not show anything properly on the screen and we will get the error in the console saying "Cannot match any routes".

Ofcourse we cannot manually create such routes because anyone can give any path. localhost:4200/adasdas or localhost:4200/gkjansdjkbnadf etc.

So, how to handle these routes?

Maybe, we want to redirect the user to a "404" page for such routes as that would be the best implementation.

# REDIRECTION

Let's say we have a 404 page component in our app and in our routes, we have one route as - 

    {path: '404', component: PageNotFoundComponent}

So if we go to localhost:4200/404 then this component will get loaded.

Now, Let's say that when the user goes to localhost:4200/something, then he should be redirected to "404" path.

How to do that?

Well, it is pretty simple. In the Routes array, each Route is an object which has properties like "path", "component", "children" etc. One such property is "redirectTo" which will redirect the user to the specified path.

So, we can say -

    {path: 'something', redirectTo: '/404'}

It means, if the user is at localhost:4200/something, then redirect the user to localhost:4200/404 page.


# WILDCARD ROUTES

As mentioned in the beginning, we cannot manually write all the possible routes and redirect them to the 404 page. That is just not a good approach. Instead, what we can do is we can define just one single route which will handle all those routes that are not defined in our routes array.

And that one route which does this is called a "WILDCARD ROUTE".

A wildcard route has a path "**" which simple means to catch all the routes. 

And that's important to understand. This route will handle all the paths, only if there are no routes before it in the array that handle those paths.

And that's also the reason why the wildcard route should always be the last route in the array.

    {path: '**', redirectTo: '/404'}

So now, this route will catch every route that is not defined in the array.

So it can be let's say localhost:4200/servers/asdasdas/adasd/ad/asd/asd

And this will catch it and redirect the user to the 404 page.

If we put this Wildcard Route in the beginning, then it will catch every single route, even though we have that route defined after it.

So, make sure it is the last route in the list.


# WITHOUT REDIRECTION

It is not necessary to redirect the user to 404 page. You can simply show 404 page for the wild card route. In that way, the URL will remain the same but the component shown will be the 404 component. In this way, the user can see and correct the URL if there is any spelling mistake.

    {path: '**', component: PageNotFoundComponent}

# PATH MATCHING

Let's say that when the user lands on the homepage that is the route with path = '', then we want the user to be redirected to the /users route.

That should be pretty simple right? We just do - 

    {path: '', redirectTo: "/users"}

And since it is not a wildcard route, we can put it as the first route in the array. 

But now, there is one issue.

When we open the browser, we see an error in the console if we go to localhost:4200.

 Invalid configuration of route '{path: "", redirectTo: "/users"}': please provide 'pathMatch'. The default value of 'pathMatch' is 'prefix', but often the intent is to use 'full'.

It says that we need to provide another property named "pathMatch" to this object. The default value of that property is "prefix".

So, let's use the default value only and see what happens.

    {path: '', redirectTo: "/users", pathMatch: 'prefix'}

Now, we see that when we go to localhost:4200 then we get redirected to the localhost:4200/users path. So it is working perfectly it seems.

But now, if we try to go to localhost:4200/servers, then again we will be redirected to localhost:4200/users. But why?

In fact, if we go to a rotue that is not configured yet, for example, localhost:4200/asdasdasdasd then also it will redirect us to the /users route.

So for some reason, every single route is being handled by the first route that we have defined which is - 

    {path: '', redirectTo: "/users", pathMatch: 'prefix'}

The reason is the value of "pathMatch" that we are using. We are using "prefix" here which is causing this issue.

But first, let's understand what is "pathMatch" and what does it do.


# PATH MATCH

The Path Match property can take one of two values -

 1. prefix (DEFAULT)
 2. full

The default value is "prefix". As the name suggests, this property lets us configure how Angular Router should match the path with the Routes that we have configured.

**1. PREFIX - **

This strategy means that the router checks the URL elements from the left to see if the URL meatches a specific route.

For example, if we have a route defined as /users/:id

Then it will match not only /users/1 but also /users/1/edit or /users/1/edit/asd/asd/ad/asd/ad

That's because it just checks if the path mentioned in the route array is present in the beginning of the path that we are checking or not.

In all the above paths, /users/:id is there in the beginning so they all are matched.

And that's also the reason why the route that we defined for an empty path is matching every single path.

    {path: '', redirectTo: "/users", pathMatch: 'prefix'}

The path is simply an empty path. And since an empty path is a prefix of any URL, the route would apply the redirect even when we go to any path such as localhost:4200/servers or localhost:4200/asdad/ad/asd/ etc.

To fix this issue, we can use the other value for pathMatch which is "full".

**2. FULL - **

As the name shows, "FULL" means that the Angular Router will redirect only if the path fully matches the mentioned path.

    {path: '', redirectTo: "/users", pathMatch: 'full'}

So now, only localhost:4200 will get matched with this route. The localhost:4200/servers won't be matched because it is not fully matched with the mentioned path ''.
 


 

