In Angular, we have the feature to pass some data through the routes that we have defined in our routing module.

This data can either be static or dynamic.

Let's understand how can we pass static data through routes in Angular.

Since we are talking about passing data through routes, let's just recall what all we have already done to pass data between components. We used @Input and @Output to pass data between Parent and Child components, and we used Angular's services to share data between components that aren't necessarily parent or child.

And recently, we learned that using the Angular Router as well, we can pass data between components - 

    1. Using Route Parameters
    2. Using Query Parameters
    3. Using Fragments

There is another way to pass data using Angular Router and that's using the "data" property that each Route Object has.

We are first going to understand how to pas "static" data. Static data simply means that we define this data in the routing module file in the route object itself. 

One really good use case is to set the "Page Title" using this "data" property. "Page Title" means the title that we see in the browser tab for the current page.

If we don't set a page title, we will keep seeing the name of the application on the tab name. 

This "data" property takes a key-value pair.

    { path: '/example', component: ExampleComponent, data :{ id:'1', name:"Angular"}},

So, when we go to /example and ExampleComponent gets loaded, then we can access the "data" that we passed to the Route inside the component. 

And to access this data, we have to do the same thing that we did to access the Route Parameters, Fragments and Query Parameters.

# EXAMPLE IN OUR PROJECT

Let's say we want to set a page title for every Route that loads some component so that we are not seeing the same Application Name on each page.

So for example, if we load the /servers route, the page title should say "Servers". If we load /servers/1/edit route, we should see page title saying "Edit Server" and so on.

Since the page title is a static property for each route, we can pass it using the "data" property of a Route.

# PASSING STATIC DATA USING THE "data" PROPERTY

Let's say for the /servers route, we want page title to say "Servers". For /servers/:id, it should say "Server Details". And for /servers/:id/edit, it should say "Edit Server".

So, we can pass that using the "data" property of a route.

    {
        path: 'servers', 
        component: ServersComponent,
        // canActivate: [AuthGuard],
        canActivateChild: [AuthGuard], 
        children: [
        {path: ':id', component: ServerComponent, data: {title: "Server Details"} },
        {path: ':id/edit', component: EditServerComponent, canDeactivate: [CanDeactivateGuard], data: {title: "Edit Server"}}
        ],data: {title: "Servers"}
    },


So, in the end of every route, we are passing a "data" property which is an object with a key value pair. There, we are setting a key as "title" and value as the title that we want for each route.

And that's how we can pass static data to a Route.

# ACCESSING THE STATIC DATA PASSED TO A ROUTE

So, we know how to pass static data to a Route. What about accessing that data and using it?

So we are sending page title in each route for /servers and its children. So, how can we get that page title in the component file?

Again, we will use the "ActivatedRoute" service here.

Just like the "Route parameters", "Fragments" and "Query Parameters", there are two ways to get the "data".

## 1. USING SNAPSHOT OBJECT

The first way is using the "snapshot" object of ActivatedRoute. As we know, this is an immutable object which is set initially when we go to any route. The values don't change in this snapshot object even if we change them.

So, to access the data and its "title" property, we can do -

    ngOnInit() {
        console.log(this.route.snapshot.data.title);
    }

But ofcourse we don't just want to console log it. We want to take this title and set this to be the title in the browser tab.

That we can do using another service that Angular provides named "Title", imported from '@angular/platform-browser'.

    ngOnInit() {
        this.titleService.setTitle(this.route.snapshot.data.title);
    }

And now, we have set the page title for this particular page. This title value is something we are passing in the route and then accessing it in the ngOnInit of the component that gets loaded on this route.


## 2. USING OBSERVABLE

Another way to access the data passed to the Route is using the "data" observable of the ActivatedRoute. Since it is an observable, it will keep listening to any changes to this data object and re-run the code inside subscribe method.

    ngOnInit() {
        this.route.data.subscribe(data => {
            this.titleService.setTitle(data.title);
        })
    }

And that's how we can pass "static" data to any Route and then access that data in the respective component.