Let's start with something simple.

In our app.component.html, we are showing three components - Home, Servers and Users.

We want to show only one component at a time on the browser, based on specific URLs.

# WHERE DO WE REGISTER THE ROUTES?

In case of our project, the routes are responsible for the whole app's routing so, it makes sense to register the Routes in the app module.

We start with defining a constant which is an array of Routes.We can give this constant any name. It is defined outside the @NgModule declaration

    // ROUTES
    const appRoutes: Routes = [
    {path: '', component: HomeComponent},
    {path: 'users', component: UsersComponent},
    {path: 'servers', component: ServerComponent}
    ];

    @NgModule(...)
    export class AppModule { }


So, each value in this array is an object of "Routes" type and this "Routes" is something we can import from @angular/router package.

Each object needs to follow a specific pattern to define a route. There are two properties in each object.

        1. path -> it defines the URL path for the route
        2. component -> it defines which component to show for a path


So, that's why, {path: 'users', component: UsersComponent} means that when we naviagate to localhost:4200/users, then show the UsersComponent on the page. Similarly, when user is at localhost:4200, then it is considered an empty path '' so we show the HomeComponent.

But, this is not enough. At this point, all we have done is created a constant which is an array of Routes but Angular has no idea how to handle routing. Because, we can create as many constants of our own which are arrays of Routes. 

We need to tell Angular to use this array of routes when trying to figure out which component to show on what route.

First we add a new import in the @NgModule -> "RouterModule".


    imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        FormsModule,
        RouterModule
    ],

But still, we haven't yet told Angular to use the appRoutes array for routing.

We don't simply use the "RouterModule" but we use a special method on this import which is "forRoot".

The method is called forRoot() because you configure the router at the application's root level. The forRoot() method supplies the service providers and directives needed for routing, and performs the initial navigation based on the current browser URL.

And this is the method which takes an array of Routes as the parameter and this is where we register the array of Routes we hav created.

    imports: [
        BrowserModule,
        FormsModule,
        RouterModule.forRoot(appRoutes)
    ],

And now, our routes are registered in our Angular app.

But still, if we go to let's say localhost:4200/users or localhost:4200/servers, we don't see the specific component getting loaded. We still see the old homescreen with all three components in one page.

That's because one missing piece in Angular routing setup is to tell Angular where to load the components that we have set up to be shown for specific routes.

We do this by using a special directive <router-outlet>.

Yes, it is a directive, not a selector -> https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/16.2.3/packages/router/src/directives/router_outlet.ts

REMEMBER THAT A DIRECTIVE CAN HAVE SUCH A SELECTOR.

As the code on github says -> This directive acts as a placeholder that Angular dynamically fills based on the current router state.

So, in the app.component.html, we can say - 

    <div class="row">
        <div class="col-xs-12 col-sm-10 col-md-8 col-sm-offset-1 col-md-offset-2">
        <router-outlet></router-outlet>
        </div>
    </div>

So, we removed all the hardcoded component tags that we had previously used such as <app-home>, <app-users> etc since now we want to show the components based on the url of the page. And so we want Angular handle this loading of components based on URL and that's why we use <router-outlet> instead.

Router Outlet simply tells Angular that whatever component needs to be loaded on the page, load it where <router-outlet> is defined. That is, Angular will smartly replace <router-outlet> with the component's selector based on the route.

So, if we are at localhost:4200/users, then <router-outlet> will be replaced by <app-users> and so on...

In short, <router-outlet> is simply a placeholder.