So far, routing is working in our app but to navigate to a page, we have to manually write the path in the URL bar.

We have a menu in our app with the <a> links and we can add the respective links there in the "href".

    <ul class="nav nav-tabs">
        <li role="presentation" class="active"><a href="/">Home</a></li>
        <li role="presentation"><a href="/servers">Servers</a></li>
        <li role="presentation"><a href="/users">Users</a></li>
      </ul>

While this will work as expected, there is one problem with this approach.

We see that now, upon clicking any link in the menu, the app gets reloaded. That's because on every link click in a web app,a new request gets sent to the server.

But this is not a behavior we would like to see in our app because on each link click, the app gets restarted which means the whole application state might get lost in each navigation.

So, Angular provides an attribute directive that we can use on the anchor tags named "routerLink" which lets us navigate to different components without reloading the page and without losing the current state of our app.


    <ul class="nav nav-tabs">
        <li role="presentation" class="active"><a routerLink="/">Home</a></li>
        <li role="presentation"><a routerLink="/servers">Servers</a></li>
        <li role="presentation"><a routerLink="/users">Users</a></li>
    </ul>

And now, we see that when we click on different links, our whole page does not reload. Instead, we just see the respective component being shown on the screen and the URL changes.

So basically, what routerLink is doing under the hood is preventing a request to be sent to server when url changes and
then checks the path against the registered routes to see if there is a fitting route defined. If yes, then it shows the component that we have defined to be shown at that path.
