There are situations where we want to navigate the user to a different URL when he does some action like submitting data or clicking some button etc.

In those cases, we cannot directly use routerLink on those buttons or links as we may have to do some computation first on the data and only then navigate the user to a specific route.

So, how can be programmatically navigate the user to a different route in the .ts file?

We somehow need access to the Angular's Router in the .ts file so that we can let it know when we want to navigate to some other page.

So, we can use Dependency Injection here and let Angular know that we need an instance of the "Router",imported from @angular/router

    constructor(private router: Router) { }

And now, when we want to navigate to some route, we can use this router to do that.

    this.router.navigate(['/servers'])

The "navigate" method takes an array as argument which has the URL fragments from which we generate a URL. And as we can see above, we are using an absolute path here. 

We can also use a relative path, if required.

# USING RELATIVE PATHS

What happens if we use a relative path?

Let's say inside the Servers component, we have a button that will reload this page.

We have done this before when we understood the difference between absolute and relative paths.

So, now, if we use a relative path to navigate - 

    this.router.navigate(['servers'])

We should see an error in console right? Because as we have learnt, since this is a relative path, it will attach "servers" to the current URL, which is localhost:4200/servers.

And since localhost:4200/servers/servers is not a valid path defined in the Router module, we should get an error.

But that does not happen! Instead, the click will reload the servers page perfectly, same as if we were using an absolute path.

But how? Why didn't we get an error this time?

That's because when we use "navigate" method, by default, it will always use the absolute path, even if we provide a relative path.

To use a relative path, we have to explicitly tell this method to which URL this path is relative to. This is done by passing a second argument to the navigate method. This second argument is an object. And one property that we can use here is "relativeTo".

And as the name suggests, this will be used to tell the Router to load the mentioned path relative to a particular URL.

Since a relative path is always relative to the currently active url, we want to pass the currently active route to this "relativeTo" property.

We can get that by injecting another Service named "ActivatedRoute"

    constructor(private activatedRoute: ActivatedRoute) { }

And now, to use a relative path, we have to do - 

    this.router.navigate(['servers'], {relativeTo: this.activatedRoute})

This just tells Angular Router that navigate the user to /servers path which is relative to the currently activated route which is "localhost:4200/servers"

And so, now, we will get the same error that we previously saw when we were using relative path in routerLink.

And that's how we navigate using relative paths programmatically.