# What even are "Services" to begin with?

If we are doing some tasks that are repeated in various components, then we can put that particular logic at one place. That single place will be called a Service. 

So, Simply put, services in Angular let you define code or functionalities that are then accessible and reusable in many other components in your Angular project.

Every Service in Angular has a "single" purpose. So, if there is a service for logging the data, then its only purpose is to log the data. It makes no sense to also use this service to make API calls.

A service is typically a class with a narrow, well-defined purpose. It should do something specific and do it well.

Yes, we can put all the code in our components e.g., to log something or to make api calls. But, Angular specifically recommends to not use components like this.

As per Angular - 

  Ideally, a component's job is to enable only the user experience. A component should present properties and methods for data binding to mediate between the view and the application logic. The view is what the template renders and the application logic is what includes the notion of a model.

  A component should use services for tasks that don't involve the view or application logic. Services are good for tasks such as fetching data from the server, validating user input, or logging directly to the console. 

  For example, Here is a service that logs the data to the browser console - 

    File Name -> logger.service.ts

    export class Logger {
      log(msg: any)   { console.log(msg); }
      error(msg: any) { console.error(msg); }
      warn(msg: any)  { console.warn(msg); }
    }

So, in Angular, the "services" are simply classes, just like components. But, the files end with "service.ts" intead of "component.ts" so that Angular knows that it is a service, not a component.


  