Let's build our first service.

We want to make a service that handles the task of "Logging to browser console".

Right now in our app, we have more than one component and we are doing some console.log in each.

Before creating a service, we have to decide where to put it. For example, here, we will create a service that is going to handle logging for all the components. So, we will put it in the app folder itself. Or we can also create a "shared" subfolder for all the shared services.

But let's say a service is specific to a component or a sub project, then it will stay there.

We can create a service file named "logging" using Angular CLI by doing - 

    ng g s logging

Once we run this command, we see that a new file will be created in the app folder named "logging.service.ts"

And if we open it, we see something new. We see that the LoggingService class has a new decorator - @Injectable and it has a property "providedIn" set to "root".

    import { Injectable } from '@angular/core';

    @Injectable({
    providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class LoggingService {

    constructor() { }
    }


So, what is this now?

On Components, we used @Component
On Directives, we used @Directive
On Service, why is there no @Service?

Well, the reason is that, a Service is just a normal typescript class and it does not even need a decorator in first place if we want to use it. Yes, there is a specific reason to use @Injectable, but even if we remove this @Injectable, then also we can use it.

Suppose, we create a method to log something to console in this LogginService file. We are not using any decorator for now - 

        export class LoggingService {

        constructor() { }

        logStatusChange(status: string){
            console.log('A server status changed, new status: ' + status);
        }

        }

Now, if we want to use it in any component, we can simply import this Class and then use it.


    onCreateAccount(accountName: string, accountStatus: string) {
        this.accountAdded.emit({
        name: accountName,
        status: accountStatus
        });
        const service = new LoggingService();
        service.logStatusChange(accountStatus);
    }

And it will work as expected.

BUT, THIS IS A WRONG WAY OF USING SERVICES IN ANGULAR!

WE SHOULD NOT CREATE THE INSTANCES (OBJECTS) OF SERVICE CLASSES MANUALLY IN COMPONENTS. WE SHOULD LET ANGULAR HANDLE THAT.

AND THAT'S WHERE "DEPENDENCY INJECTION" COMES INTO PICTURE.
