In Angular, we deal with a lot of components for each page. Sometimes, we do not want all of them to be loaded right away when that specific page loads up. Maybe we only want to load them when the user actually scrolls to that component.

Take an example of a 'comments' component. We do not want to load the comments component when the user is not even looking at it. If the user scrolls down and reaches the place where we have that component on the page, maybe then we want to show that component.

To handle such scenarios, Angular has a feature named "Deferrable Views". This feature was introduced in Angular 17 and they are Angular’s way of delaying the loading of components, directives, pipes, and CSS within a template until certain conditions are met.

The benefit? A reduced initial load time, improved core web vitals and a smarter resource management.

# WHICH DEPENDENCIES ARE DEFERRED?

Components, directives, pipes, and any component CSS styles can be deferred when loading an application.

In order for the dependencies within a '@defer' block to be deferred, they need to meet two conditions:

    - They must be standalone. Non-standalone dependencies cannot be deferred and are still eagerly loaded, even if they are inside of @defer blocks.
  
    - They cannot be referenced outside of @defer blocks within the same file. If they are referenced outside the @defer block or referenced within 'ViewChild' queries, the dependencies will be eagerly loaded.

The transitive dependencies of the components, directives and pipes used in the '@defer' block do not strictly need to be standalone; transitive dependencies can still be declared in an 'NgModule' and participate in deferred loading.

Angular's compiler produces a dynamic import statement for each component, directive, and pipe used in the '@defer' block. The main content of the block renders after all the imports resolve. 

Angular does not guarantee any particular order for these imports.

# THE PROJECT IN THIS SECTION

The project under this section is a pretty simple one. We have two separate components - Offer Preview Component and the Welcome component. Inside the "AppComponent" template, we are having the selector of the "Welcome" component.

And this "Welcome" component has the "Offer Preview" component's selector in its template.

The "Offer Preview" component is pretty interesting because it shows a progress bar which runs until the timer expires. If the timer expires, then we simply show the offer expired message to the user.

At this point, it does not matter if the user has scrolled down to the "Offer Preview" component or not. The timer will run in the background and when it expires, we will show the offer expired message.

So, it is possible that by the time user scrolls down to see the offer preview component, the timer has already expired and the offer expired message is shown to the user.

This is not what we want. We want the timer to begin only whn the user scrolls down to the "Offer Preview" component. And this is where the deferrable views come into play.
