The most important part of a Deferrable View in Angular is the @defer block.

Whatever component we want to load lazily on the current page, we have to wrap its selector around the @defer block.

So, what if we wrap the selector of the "Offer Preview" component around the @defer block?

Something like this -

    @defer {
        <app-offer-preview />
    }

What does this do?

By default, when we use @defer like this without providing it anything else, it will load the component when the browser is idle. So, we are basically saying load the "Offer Preview" component when the browser is idle.

Ofcourse that is not what we want here, we want to load the "Offer Preview" component when the user scrolls down to it.

And that's where we have "Triggers".

In fact, the default trigger is "on idle", which means that the component will be loaded when the browser is idle.

So, the above code can also be written like this and it will mean the same -

    @defer (on idle) {
        <app-offer-preview />
    }

# SUB-BLOCKS

Alongside the @defer block, we can also use some sub-blocks to make the user experience smoother. These sub-blocks handle different stages of loading the component inside "@defer" block.

For example, what if the component that we are loading inside @defer is large and will take some time to show up on the page? What do we show the user in the meantime? Maybe we show a loader or some placeholder. Or maybe we show an error if the component fails to load.

And for these, we have three sub-blocks -

1. @placeholder: This block is shown before the deferred block is loaded. This helps to avoid layout shifts while waiting for the main content.

        @defer (on idle) {
            <app-offer-preview />
        } @placeholder {
            <p> I am a placeholder </p>
        }

This block accepts one optional parameter named "minimum" which we can use to specify the "minimum" amount of time that this placeholder is shown after the placeholder content initially renders.

    @defer (on idle) {
        <app-offer-preview />
    } @placeholder (minimum 500ms) {
        <p> I am a placeholder </p>
    }

You can use this parameter to prevent fast flickering of placeholder content in the case that the deferred dependencies are fetched quickly.


2. @loading: This is to show some content while the deferred dependencies are being fetched. Usually, we use it to show some loading animation or spinner.

        @defer (on idle) {
            <app-offer-preview />
        } @loading {
            <p> Loading... </p>
        }

The @loading block can also accept parameters. It accepts two optional parameters -

    1. minimum - the minimum amount of time that this placeholder should be shown
    2. after - the amount of time to wait after loading begins before showing the loading template
 
Both parameters are specified in time increments of milliseconds (ms) or seconds (s). In addition, the timers for both parameters begin immediately after the loading has been triggered.

For example, maybe we want to show the loading content for at least 2 second on the page. It is possible that the deferred component loads up quite quickly (in less than 2 seconds) but we still want to show the loading content for 2 seconds and then only we show the deferred component. We can do that like this -

    @defer (on idle) {
        <app-offer-preview />
    } @loading (minimum 2s) {
        <p> Loading... </p>
    }

Let's take another scenario. Maybe the defer block is loading and it is taking more time than expected and we want to show the users that the component is still loading. We can use "after" parameter in that case - 

    @defer (on idle) {
        <app-offer-preview />
    } @loading (after 5s; minimum 2s) {
        <p> Loading... </p>
    }

So, it means if the deferred component is not loaded in 5 seconds, we will show the loading content and the loading content will show up for at least 2 seconds. Yes, we can use the two parameters at the same time.

3. @error: This is to show some content if the loading fails.

    @defer (on idle) {
        <app-offer-preview />
    } @error {
        <p> Couldn't load the component... </p>
    }

It is important to note that whatever you write inside @placeholder, @loading and @error blocks will be eagerly loaded whic means they will be loaded immediately when the page loads. So, you should keep this in mind while writing the code inside these blocks.

You might also wonder, why do we have @placeholder and @loading as two separate sub-blocks as they seem to be doing the same thing?

Note that 'loading' stage is a part of the activation stage of the defer block. This activation might happen with some delay and in this delay, the @loading block won't be shown if we only have that in the template and not the @placeholder block. So, in the meantime, if we need to show something on the screen, we have to use the @placeholder block.