Remember the concept of "Preloading" when we learnt "Lazy Loading" of modules/components using Routing? "Preloading" in Angular means loading the Lazy loaded Modules in the background asynchronously, while user is interacting with the app. This helps boost up the loading time of the app.

Now, the same concept is also there in the "Deferrable Views" feature that was introduced in Angular 17. It is called "Prefetching".

Let's say we have a page with one heavy component in it that we do not want to load immediately when the page loads. But still, we know that this component is something that users will be interacting with quite often. So, we want to defer its loading but we also do not want the users to wait for it to load when they actually need it. 

And that's where we can use "Prefetching". "Prefetching" means to load the component in the background so that when the user actually needs it, it is instantly loaded and shown on the page.

We can specify a "prefetch" trigger (which is optional) in the @defer block. And this trigger lets us load the JavaScript associdated with the @defer block before the deferred content is shown.

You can specify a 'prefetch' trigger similarly to the block's main trigger, but prefixed with the 'prefetch' keyword. The block's main trigger and 'prefetch' trigger are separated with a semi-colon character (;).

For example, let's say we have a large component that we want to load lazily (defer). So, only if the user interacts with the placeholder, the component will load. But we also want to prefetch the component if the browser is idle. So that when the user interacts with the placeholder, then the component is already loaded and we do not have to wait for it to load.

Note that here, loading means to download the JavaScript associated with the component. You can see this in the browser's network tab. You will see sone "chunk" files being downloaded when the component is loaded. And this is what we mean by "loading" here.

So, we can use "prefetch" keyword like this -

    @defer (on interaction; prefetch on idle) {
        <some-large-component />
    } @placeholder {
        <div>Large component placeholder</div>
    }

The above code would display 'some-large-component' when the user interacts with the placeholder, but it would prefetch the code on idle, meaning as soon as the browser isn’t busy doing anything else. That way, when the user starts interacting with the placeholder, the component has already been downloaded (or is currently downloading) from the server, which speeds things up.

The nice thing about prefetch is that it supports the same triggers (idle, viewport, interaction, hover, immediate, timer, when) as the '@defer' block, which allows for lots of different possible customizations.
