So, we now know how to create a directive and how to use "Renderer" in Angular.

Now, we want to do what we decided to do initially. That is, only highlight an element if we "hover over it".

We want to react to events that happen on the element using our custom directive. And we can do that using "HostListener" decorator.

NOTE - "HOST" here refers to the element on which we use the decorator. So, just keep that in mind whenever "host" is mentioned.

Since it is a decorator, we use it in the same way as we use @Input and @Output.

That is, it is applied on some class property or method and is passed an argument.

In @HostListener(), the first argument is the name of the DOM event that, if occurs on the element using this directive, is handled.

For example, we want to do something if we hover over an element. So, we can use the "mouseenter" event.

And now, we need to do whatever we were doing inside ngOninit but this time, inside the method on which this @HostListener() decorator sits.

@HostListener('mouseenter') onMouseHover() {
    this.renderer.setStyle(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'background-color', "green");
  }

So now, let's say we have a paragraph using this decorator.

     <p appBasicHighlight> Style me with a Custom Directive </p>

If we now hover over it, it will have a green background color. 

But we have an issue here.

While the background color changes when we hover, it is not getting reset when we remove the mouse pointer from the element. 

It means, when mouse pointer leaves the element, we also need to handle that event. And again, we can use another @HostListener() here.

    @HostListener('mouseleave') onMouseLeave() {
        this.renderer.setStyle(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'background-color', "transparent");
    }

And now, we have created our custom Directive that changes the background color of the element when we hover over it.

# SECOND ARGUMENT IN @HOSTLISTENER()

What is passed as the second argument in @HostListener?

We pass an array as the second argument. This is an array of Strings and each string is an argument that we want to pass to the handler method that we have defined.

Let's suppose that we want to also get hold of the event data of the mouseenter event inside our handler method. Let's say we just want to console log it for now.

We can get that by first passing it inside @HostListener as the second argument - 


    @HostListener('mouseenter', ['$event']) onMouseHover(event: Event) {
        console.log("Event data is", event)
        this.renderer.setStyle(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'background-color', "green");
    }

So, in the second argument, we have an array of strings and for now, we have only one item in this array, which is the $event object which holds the Event data. 

And we are then accepting that Event data in the onMoustHover() as an argument.

If we just want the host element on which this event occurs, we can directly pass $event.target as well. 

     @HostListener('mouseenter', ['$event.target
     ]) onMouseHover(element) {
        console.log("Element on which event occured is", element)
        this.renderer.setStyle(this.elementRef.nativeElement, 'background-color', "green");
    }