Now that we know how a structural directive works under the hood, let's create a custom structural directive.

Let's try to create a simple structural directive that does opposite of ngIf. That is, if a condition is true, it will not render the template. Otherwise, it will render.

Let's call it "ngNotIf".

    @Directive({
        selector: '[ngNotIf]'
    })

Now, just like the ng_if.ts that we saw on github, we have to get reference to the template as well as the place where we want to render this template.

We can do that inside the constructor.

    constructor(private templateRef: TemplateRef<any>, private viewContainerRef: ViewContainerRef) { }

Since we will accept the condition as input from outside, we will use the @Input() decorator here and this time, we will use a setter to take the condition and do something. 

    @Input('ngNotIf') 
    set do_something(condition: boolean) {
        if (!condition) {
        } else {
        }
    }


So, as we planned initially, if the condition is false, only then we want to render the template. Otherwise we won't. So, we can use the methods of viewContainerRef to do that.

    @Input('ngNotIf') 
    set do_something(condition: boolean) {
        if (!condition) {
        this.viewContainerRef.createEmbeddedView(this.templateRef);
        } else {
        this.viewContainerRef.clear();
        }
    }

So, now, our structural directive is ready. 

We can now use it just like other structural directives. That is, using a "star" syntax. And under the hood, Angular will take care of using <ng-template> and enclosing the template inside that.

    <button class="btn btn-primary" (click)="condition = !condition">
        Change the Condition to {{condition ? 'False' : 'True'}}
    </button>

    <p *ngNotIf="condition"> Shown when condition is False. Because it uses ngNotIf directive</p>

When we click the button, condition will toggle between True and False. And only if condition is False, we will see the paragraph rendering on the screen.

And well, that's how we create a structural directive in Angular.