There is another decorator that we can use to alter the properties of an element. Using the HostListener, we were using the "Renderer2" to set the "background-color" style on the host element.

Using HostBinding, we don't need to use the Renderer2. There is nothing wrong with using a Renderer. HostBinding is like another way to do the same thing.

As the name suggests, "HostBinding" lets us bind to the properties of the "Host" inside the custom directive that we have created.

Using a HostBinding decorator, we can bind any property of the directive class to a property of the element on which this directive is used.

For example, since we want to alter the background color of the host element, we can create a property in the directive class and then use HostBinding() on that property.

Just like other decorators that we have used, the HostBinding() takes an argument and this is the exact property that we want to change.

    @HostBinding('style.background-color')
    backgroundColor: string;

So, we have a property "backgroundColor" in the directive clas and on that, we used @HostBinding and then as argument, we have passed the exact style that we want to change.

We want to change background color so we passed the 'style.background-color' as argument to @HostBinding.

So now what happens is, as soon as we use this decorator on any element, the 'backgroundColor' property can be used to change the background color of that element.


    @HostListener('mouseenter') 
    onMouseHover() {
        this.backgroundColor = 'green';
    }

    @HostListener('mouseleave') 
    onMouseHover() {
        this.backgroundColor = 'transparent';
    }

So, the code is now much more simpler and easy to understand.

This also shows that if we use HostBinding, that does not mean we can ignore using HostListener. In fact, HostBinding is just a way to reduce the amount of code we otherwise had to write inside HostListener() method.

Another thing is that we can use either camel case or css property itself inside HostBinding.

e.g. Both of styles below will work the same - 

    @HostBinding('style.background-color')
    backgroundColor: string;

    @HostBinding('style.backgroundColor')
    backgroundColor: string;

And this binding is not just limited to style properties. You can also bind to any class, property, or attribute of the host.

e.g.  @HostBinding('class.active'), @HostBinding('disabled')
, @HostBinding('attr.role') and so on
 
# AN EASY WAY TO REMEMBER WHAT DOES WHAT

From StackOverflow - 

A quick tip that helps me remember what they do -

HostBinding('value') myValue; is exactly the same as [value]="myValue"

    And

HostListener('click') myClick(){ } is exactly the same as (click)="myClick()"


HostBinding and HostListener are written in directives and the other ones (...) and [..] are written inside templates (of components).

