So far, our directive is doing what we planned initially.

That is, if we use this directive on an element, then that element will get some background color when we hover over it.

But, the issue is that this color is something we are deciding. What if we want this color value to be dynamic?

Maybe we want to ship this directive with some third party package that we are offering and we want the user/dev to choose the color value.

Or let's say we want to use the color in our app dyamically based on some condition. For example, for light theme, we may want to have a different highlight color than for a dark theme.

For that, we have to accept input values from outside that we can then use in this directive.

And well, we know how to accept Input values from outside in a component, right? We do that using the @Input() decorator.

Can we do the same in a directive?

As it turns out... YES we can!

    @Input() highlightColor: string = 'green';

So, we define a property in the directive class file which we give default value initially and mark it with @Input() decorator.

So now, we can accept this value from outside as well.

Suppose, we have two paragraphs. For one, we want to highlight it yellow when we hover over it. But for the other, we want to highlight it with blue when we hover. So, we can do that now - 


    <p appBasicHighlight [highlightColor]="'yellow'" > Highlight with Yellow Color when Hover </p>

    <p appBasicHighlight [highlightColor]="'blue'" > Highlight with Blue Color when Hover </p>


So, we are now using the property binding here and setting the "highlightColor" property for both paragraph elements.

It is not necessary to use property binding here since the value is not dynamic. 

    <p appBasicHighlight highlightColor="yellow" > Highlight with Yellow Color when Hover </p>

    <p appBasicHighlight highlightColor="blue" > Highlight with Blue Color when Hover </p>

But we can maybe get the color value from the user and then set that here using property binding.


# HOW DOES ANGULAR KNOW WHICH PROPERTY TO BIND

     <p appBasicHighlight [highlightColor]="'blue'" > Highlight with Blue Color when Hover </p>


When we write the above code, how does Angular know that we are binding to the "highlightColor" property of directive and not of the paragraph element.

I mean, we might have a property name that is same as any property of the paragraph element. 

The answer is that, Angular will always first check if the element uses any directive and whether there is any @Input() property same as what we are binding.  If yes, then Angular will bind the value to the directive property, not to the property of the element.

That's why, if you try to set the value of the property without using the directive - 

    <p [highlightColor]="'blue'" > 
      Highlight with Blue Color when Hover
    </p>

Angular will throw an error -> Can't bind to 'highlightColor' since it isn't a known property of 'p'.

That's because Angular sees that there is no directive used on this element and so this property must be a property of <p> element. But we know that there is no property of <p> named "highlightColor". Hence, an error is thrown


# ANOTHER WAY TO BIND PROPERTIES


We have used the "ngClass" directive or the "ngStyle" directive in Angular. And as we know, we don't use them without a square bracket.

We always use them as 

        [ngClass]="{'first': true, 'second': true, 'third': false}
        [ngStyle]="{'max-width.px': widthExp}"

So, why are we able to use our custom directive without any square brackets?


Well, the reason if that inside ngClass directive, we are accepting an @Input() value that is also named "ngClass". ANd so, instead of using the directive as <p ngClass [ngClass]="Something">

We can use a shorthand as <p [ngClass]="Something"> since the name of directive is same as property so Angular understands it.

This means, we can do the same thing in our custom directive. Since we are only accepting one value as input "highlightColor".

So, instead of "highlightColor" we can call the directive property as "appBasicHighlight", the same name as the directive itself.

    @Directive({
    selector: '[appBasicHighlight]'
    })
    export class BasicHighlightDirective implements OnInit {

        @Input() appBasicHighlight: string = 'green';
    }

So now, instead of writing - 

    <p appBasicHighlight [appBasicHighlight]="'yellow'" > Highlight with Yellow Color when Hover </p>

We can instead write - 

    <p [appBasicHighlight]="'yellow'" > Highlight with Yellow Color when Hover </p>


And that explains why ngStyle/ngClass is used with square brackets because by doing that, we are telling Angular that inside "ngClass" directive, there is a property named "ngClass" so set the value for that.

Also, as we know, we can pass an alias to @Input() decorator. So, instead of changing name of the decorator property, we can simply add an alias which is same as the name of directive.

    @Directive({
    selector: '[appBasicHighlight]'
    })
    export class BasicHighlightDirective implements OnInit {

        @Input('appBasicHighlight) highlightColor: string = 'green';
    }
    


