Zone pollution in Angular refers to unintended side effects or performance issues caused by Angular's Zone.js library, which enables Angular's change detection mechanism. 

Sometimes, we have some code that, when runs, triggers Change Detection but we do not want to trigger Change Detection in that case.

For example, let's say that in "CounterComponent", we have an ngOnInit with this - 

     ngOnInit(): void {
        setTimeout(() => {
            console.log("Timer expired!")
        }, 5000);
    }

You will notice that after 5 seconds, the console will print "Time expired!" but it will also trigger a Change Detection Cycle and hence we see the "debutOutput" for all the components get printed in the console.

This is completely unnecessary. This is simply a console log statement which has no effect on any binding in the template or any property in our .ts file. We want this logic to not trigger change detection at all.

The Change Detection ran due to this setTimeout because as we understood, our entire application is wrapped inside a "Zone" which keeps listening to all the events, including "setTimeout".

So, what if we could run this "setTimeout" outside this "Zone" somehow?

Well, looks like we can do that.

We can get a reference to the "NgZone" in the constructor and this is an injectable service for executing work inside or outside of the Angular zone.

It has a method named "runOutsideAngular" which we can use to run our "setTimeout" outside the zone.

    constructor(private zone: NgZone) {}

    ngOnInit(): void {
        this.zone.runOutsideAngular(() => {
            setTimeout(() => {
                console.log("Timer expired!")
            }, 5000);
        });
    }

And now, you will see that even though "Timer expired" gets printed in the console, it will not run a Change Detection Cycle.

So, we can use Angular's NgZone.runOutsideAngular to execute code that doesn't need to trigger change detection.

