So, how can we manually tell Angular to re-evaluate the "MessagesListComponent"?

Well, we can use a service named "ChangeDetectorRef" which Angular provides us using which we can tell Angular to run Change Detection.

    private cdRef = inject(ChangeDetectorRef);

But the problem is, where do we want to use it? We want to manually trigger change detection when data in the service changes. But, we cannot do that because this "cdRef" needs to be used inside the component that we want Angular to check.

So, somehow, we want to get notified that the data has changed in the service. How can we do that? Well, here, we can use "Subjects". 

We will use a "Subject" here to emit the list when it updates - 

    export class MessagesService {

        messages$ = new Subject<string[]>();

        private messages: string[] = [];
        get allMessages(){
            return [...this.messages];
        }

        addMessage(message: string) {
            this.messages = [...this.messages, message];
            this.messages$.next([...this.messages]);
        }
    }

And now, we can use this "Subject" to subscribe to it and get the updated list of messages in "MessagesListComponent" -

    messages: string[] = [];

    ngOnInit() {
        this.messagesService.messages$.subscribe({
            next: (data: string[]) =>  {
                this.messages = data;
            }
        })
    }

But, even with this code, we will see that the "MessagesListComponent" does not get re-evaluated by Angular. Why?

Well, remember that we are using "OnPush" strategy so the component will be re-evaluated automatically only if some "Input" changes or some "event" happens or "signal" changes, neither of which is happening here.

We have to manually tell Angular to re-evaluate this component in the next change detection cycle. And we do that using "markForChecked" function of "ChangeDetectorRef" - 

    ngOnInit() {
        const subscription = this.messagesService.messages$.subscribe({
            next: (data: string[]) =>  {
                this.messages = data;
                this.cdRef.markForCheck()
            }
            })

        this.destroyRef.onDestroy(() => subscription.unsubscribe());
    }

Now, when we get the updated data, we also mark this component for check so that in the next change detection cycle, Angular will also check this component, even if it is using "OnPush" strategy. Note that "markForCheck" explicitly marks the component and its "ancestors" as needing change detection.

Note that here, we are not using "detectChanges" but the "markForCheck" function.

"detechChanges" will trigger immediate change detection only for the current component and its children. On the other hand, "markForCheck" marks the component and ancestors for checking for the next Change Detection Cycle. So, the performance impact is very low when we use "markForCheck".
