We saw how we can use a "Subject" and then subscribe to that subject to get notifed about the updated data. But, writing this same code again and again just to do this one simple thing of getting notified and marking the component for check is not a good idea.

Angular actually offers a built-in pipe named "AsyncPipe" that we can use to do this in just one line.

So, all that we need to do is get the reference to the "Subject" that is present in the service first - 

    export class MessagesListComponent {
        private messagesService = inject(MessagesService);
        messages$ = this.messagesService.messages$; <- HERE

        get debugOutput() {
            console.log('[MessagesList] "debugOutput" binding re-evaluated.');
            return 'MessagesList Component Debug Output';
        }
    }

And now, we can use the "async" pipe in the template like this -

    @for (message of messages$ | async; track message) {
        <li>{{ message }}</li>
    }

Make sure to import it in the "imports" array of the @Component decorator - 

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-messages-list',
        standalone: true,
        templateUrl: './messages-list.component.html',
        styleUrl: './messages-list.component.css',
        changeDetection: ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush,
        imports: [AsyncPipe] <- HERE
    })

So, the purpose of "Async" pipe is to -

    Automatically subscribe to an Observable or a Promise.
    Retrieve and render the latest value emitted by the Observable or resolved by the Promise.
    Automatically unsubscribe from the Observable when the component is destroyed, preventing memory leaks.

When we use "OnPush" strategy, then the Angular will check the Component subtree not only when @Input properties change or any event occurs but also when "Async" pipe is used and a new value is received by this pipe.

When you use the AsyncPipe with OnPush, Angular behaves as follows:

    The AsyncPipe listens for changes in the Observable or Promise.
    
    When a new value is emitted, it triggers Angular's change detection to update the template, even if the component uses ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush.

This ensures the UI stays up-to-date with the latest asynchronous data without requiring manual calls to markForCheck().

So, using "Async" pipe eliminates the need to manually subscribe and unsubscribe to Observables in the component.
