So far, we learnt a lot of things regarding Angular's Change Detection but whatever we did so far, it all is directly related to the "Zone.js" library.

So, an Angular project has to have this extra dependency of "zonejs" for proper Change Detection.

What if we could eliminate this "ZoneJs" dependency from our Angular application? What would be the benefits?

As per the official documentation, these will be the advantages of removing ZoneJS as a dependency -

1. **IMPROVED PERFORMANCE**

"ZoneJS" uses DOM events and async tasks as indicators of when application state might have updated and subsequently triggers application synchronization to run change detection on the application's views.

ZoneJS does not have any insight into whether application state actually changed and so this synchronization is triggered more frequently than necessary.

2. **IMPROVED CORE WEB VITALS**

"ZoneJS" brings a fair amount of overhead, both in payload size and in startup time cost.

3. **IMPROVED DEBUGGING EXPERIENCE**

"ZoneJS" makes debugging code more difficult. Stack traces are harder to understand with "ZoneJS". It's also difficult to understand when code breaks as a result of being outside the Angular Zone.

4. **BETTER ECOSYSTEM COMPATIBILITY**

"ZoneJS" works by patching browser APIs but does not automatically have patches for every new browser API. 

Some APIs simply cannot be patched effectively, such as async/await, and have to be downleveled to work with "ZoneJS".

Sometimes libraries in the ecosystem are also incompatible with the way "ZoneJS" patches the native APIs. Removing "ZoneJS" as a dependency ensures better long-term compatibility by removing a source of complexity, monkey patching, and ongoing maintenance.

# SIGNALS AND ZONEJS

Well, the Introduction of Signals meant that soon, we could get rid of this "ZoneJS" dependency in Angular applications. If in our Angular app, we are using Signals, event-binding and manually triggering change detection via ChangeDetectorRef, then we could remove Zone.js.

While Zone.js’s change detection needs to go through all components to identify changes and update the view, signals respond precisely to changes in the controller, instantly updating the view. This targeted approach significantly enhances performance in larger-scale Angular projects.

# ENABLING ZONELESS IN AN APPLICATION

Before doing this, we should switch back to using Signals in our "MessagesService".

    @Injectable({
        providedIn: 'root'
    })
    export class MessagesService {
        private messages = signal<string[]>([]);

        allMessages = this.messages.asReadonly();

        addMessage(message: string) {
            this.messages.update(prevMessages => [...prevMessages, message]);
        }
    }

We have to update the NewMessageComponent back to how it was before -

    export class NewMessageComponent {
        private messagesService = inject(MessagesService);
        enteredText = signal('');

        get debugOutput() {
            console.log('[NewMessage] "debugOutput" binding re-evaluated.');
            return 'NewMessage Component Debug Output';
        }

        onSubmit() {
            this.messagesService.addMessage(this.enteredText());
            this.enteredText.set('');
        }
    }

And same with the MessagesListComponent -

    export class MessagesListComponent {
        private messagesService = inject(MessagesService);
        messages = this.messagesService.allMessages;

        get debugOutput() {
            console.log('[MessagesList] "debugOutput" binding re-evaluated.');
            return 'MessagesList Component Debug Output';
        }
    }

And make sure you are no longer using async pipe now in the html - 

    @for (message of messages(); track message) {
        <li>{{ message }}</li>
    }

Now that we are using signals all over in our application for the data that may change, we can now enable "Zoneless" in this application.

## STEP 1 - EDIT angular.json FILE

The first step is to go to "angular.json" file and under "build", you will find the "polyfills" property with "zone.js" in its array. Make sure you remove it.

So before, it would be like this -

    "polyfills": [
      "zone.js"
    ],

Make it like this -

    "polyfills": [],

Similarly, remove it from "test" property's "polyfills" option as well.

You will need to restart your Angular app.

## STEP 2 - UPDATE APPLICATION CONFIG IN main.ts

The next step is to go in the main.ts file and inside the "bootstrapApplication" function, add a second argument which is a configuration object.

Here, we will add the "providers" property which takes an array as a value and in the array, we will put "provideExperimentalZonelessChangeDetection()" as the value which we import from @angular/core.

    bootstrapApplication(AppComponent, {
        providers: [provideExperimentalZonelessChangeDetection()]
    }).catch((err) => console.error(err));

This provides change detection without ZoneJS for the application bootstrapped using "bootstrapApplication".

Note that if your Angular application is using NgModules, then you have to add this to the AppModule - 

    @NgModule({
        providers: [provideExperimentalZonelessChangeDetection()]
    })
    export class AppModule {}

Zoneless applications should remove ZoneJS entirely from the build to reduce bundle size. ZoneJS is typically loaded via the polyfills option in angular.json, both in the build and test targets. Remove zone.js and zone.js/testing from both to remove it from the build. Projects which use an explicit polyfills.ts file should remove import 'zone.js'; and import 'zone.js/testing'; from the file.

So, we can now run the following command to completely uninstall zone.js dependency from the project - 

    npm uninstall zone.js

Remember that in the "CounterComponent" we were running a setTimeout outside the NgZone. Now that we are no longer using Zone.js, we can remove that NgZone reference completely.

So, before we had - 

    this.zone.runOutsideAngular(() => {
      setTimeout(() => {
        console.log("Timer expired!")
      }, 5000);
    });

And after, we will have - 

    setTimeout(() => {
        console.log("Timer expired!")
      }, 5000);

So now, the entire change detection is being handled with signals and other things like event bindings using which Angular knows when to update the data.

For example, in our "CounterComponent", if we have the following in ngOnInit - 

    setTimeout(() => {
      this.count.set(0);
    }, 4000);

Even though we are not using "Zone.js" anymore, Angular can still know after 4 seconds that it now needs to run Change Detection. That's all thanks to the "count" property which is a "signal". 

What if we were using simple values here in this component instead of signals like this -

    export class CounterComponent implements OnInit {
    
        count = 0;

        ngOnInit(): void {

            setTimeout(() => {
            this.count = 0;
            }, 4000);

            setTimeout(() => {
                console.log("Timer expired!")
            }, 5000);
            }

        get debugOutput() {
            console.log('[Counter] "debugOutput" binding re-evaluated.');
            return 'Counter Component Debug Output';
        }

        onDecrement() {
            this.count -= 1;
        }

        onIncrement() {
            this.count += 1;
        }
    }

You will see that we can still increment and decrement the count because remember that when we click the button, we are having an event listener on this "click" event so this is one of the things that makes Angular run the change detection automatically.

But now, our settimeout does not work because Angular has no way to know that after 4 seconds, the count resets to 0 as it is not keeping track of it at all. That's how "signals" help us as Angular knows when signal changes and it can update the view accordingly.

Angular relies on notifications from core APIs in order to determine when to run change detection and on which views. These notifications include:

    1. ChangeDetectorRef.markForCheck (called automatically by AsyncPipe)
    2. ComponentRef.setInput
    3. Updating a signal that's read in a template
    4. Bound host or template listeners callbacks
    5. Attaching a view that was marked dirty by one of the above

# DO WE STILL NEED ONPUSH STRATEGY?

You will see that we are still using "OnPush" strategy.

The OnPush change detection strategy is not required, but it is a recommended step towards zoneless compatibility for application components. 

Just as with zone-based change detection, it prevents your components from being checked if it's not needed, and thus increases the performance of each Change Detection.

OnPush strategy decides which component will be checked by Change Detection.

In Zone apps, "Zone.js" is the scheduler by the means of patching all the async APIs (setTimeout(), Promise, addEventListener(), etc). When one of those is called, a Change Detection is scheduled.

In zoneless apps, this is no longer possible as no APIs are monkey patched. The framework needs to find another way to schedule CD. Today it uses following:

    - Signal updates (set() or update())
    - markForCheck() or AsyncPipe
    - An event listener in the template fires

So, the bottom-line is that - 

    "ZoneLess" scheduling is about "WHEN" components are checked
    "OnPush" is about "WHICH" components are checked