With Angular 16, we got a new feature called "Signals". This feature was in "Developer Preview" in Angular 16.

It is a new way in which the code tells the template (and other code) that some data has changed. The result is an improved Angular Change Detection, an improved performance and a more reactive code.

# CLASSIC CHANGE DETECTION

Before Signals, Angular used the Classic Change Detection which, under the hood, uses a library named "ZoneJS" to detect changes and update the template accordingly. That's why the Classic Change Detection is sometimes also called "Zone-based" Change Detection.

So, in the "Classic" change detection, as we know, we simply create some variables to hold values in the .ts file, and then on some actions like button clicks, we update those variables. And we show the values in the template using the "string interpolation".

The advantage of "Classic Change Detection" is that the changes are detected automatically and the UI is therefore updated automatically.

So it is already perfect right? Since everything is taken care of Angular automatically.

## THE ISSUE WITH CLASSIC CHANGE DETECTION

The idea behind Zone.js is that you don’t have to worry about how and when to rerender the view. While Zone.js works pretty well, it does require a lot of JavaScript code to be shipped before your application even starts. Additionally, Zone.js doesn’t really know where each change occurs and needs to dirty check and refresh the entire component tree whenever a change is detected.

For example, when you click a button or update a property in any component, Zone.js will detect that change and check the entire component tree starting from the parent component down to each component. While Zone.js is well-optimized and this process is really fast, Angular ends up recalculating and rechecking a lot of unnecessary code because we don’t really know where the change occurred. All we know is that a click event or update event has been triggered somewhere, and the view might need to be rerendered somewhere.

## ONPUSH STRATEGY

To optimize the change detection process, Angular introduced the ChangeDetectionStrategy.OnPush. This strategy checks only the component branch that was impacted by the change, down to the component where the change occurred.

This approach saves unnecessary calculations and improves performance.

However, using the OnPush strategy requires developers to have more knowledge of Angular in order to trigger change detection correctly.

So, the bottom line is that the Classic Change Detection is not perfect.

# SIGNALS

A Signal is a "wrapper" around a value that notifies the interested consumers when that value changes. There is no limitation on what type of values signals can wrap. Signals can contain any value, from simple primitives to complex data structures.

To read the value of a Signal, we use its "getter" function which allows Angular to track where this signal is used.

When a signal is updated, any templates that listen to that signal are notified and the Views and only those Views are refreshed.

Now, since everything is not happening automatically and we have to tell Angular when something changes, the code is slightly more but the advantage of all this is a better control on the application, better performance and a smaller bundle.

# READING SIGNALS IN ONPUSH COMPONENTS

When you read a signal within an OnPush component's template, Angular tracks the signal as a dependency of that component. When the value of that signal changes, Angular automatically marks the component to ensure it gets updated the next time change detection runs.