In the project in this section, we have a simple Angular app which has just one component to start with - "default". It is also a "standalone" component.

In this component, we have a "counter" variable in the .ts file which is incremented or decremented by clicking one of the two buttons. And that variable is then shown on the screen using the "string interpolation". We are also logging the actions that we peform when we click the buttons on the UI. For that, we have the "actions" variable which is an array of strings. We are outputting this array using ngFor.

So, here, the classic change detection is in the works.

Now, to understand how a "Signal" based change detection works, let's keep our "default" folder in this application, and just create a similar folder "signals". We can simply copy paste the default folder and rename it and its files to "signals".

Finally, we will also update the app.component.html so that it now has -

    <app-signals></app-signals>

And since it is a standalone component as well, we will need to import the SignalsComponent inside app.component.ts.

And so, now we are all set so start with Signals.

# CREATING A NEW SIGNAL

Let's start with the "counter" variable in SignalsComponent file.

As we know by now, Signals are "wrappers" around values. It means, to convert the "counter" variable into a signal, we have to wrap it around a "signal". 

We do that using a function named "signal()" which is provided by the @angular/core package.
    
    import { signal } from '@angular/core';
    counter = signal(0);

To this function, we provide some arguments. The first argument is required and it is the "Initial Value" for this signal. So, in this case, we provided the initial value as "0". It can also take a second argument which is an object but that is optional.

Now that we did this, you will see that the app now starts showing errors in the code. The reason is that in the "increment" and "decrement" methods, we are updating the counter by doing "++" and "--".

But now, the "counter" variable is no longer a number. It is a Signal. And we cannot directly use increment and decrement operator on a Signal.