So, how can we update the value inside the signal now?

When we use signals, we don't update the value by using the assignment operator (=). We cannot do -

    this.counter++ or this.counter = this.counter + 1

Instead, Angular provides us two different ways to update a value in a signal.

    1. Using "set()" method -> Using this method, we can set a new value for the signal

    2. Using "update()" method -> Using this method, we can set a new value based on the old value of the signal. This is preferred for something like a "counter".

So, based on these, the "update" method here best suits for our application because we want to increment or decrement the value of Counter if buttons are clicked. And to do so, we need to know what was the previous value.

So, inside increment(), we can do -

    this.counter.update(prev => prev + 1) ;

So, the update() method gives us access to the previous value and then, we can update our signal to "previousValue + 1".

Similarly, we can do this in decrement() method - 

    this.counter.update(prev => prev - 1) ;

And now, there are no errors in the code.

But, now, when our application loads, we see that instead of seeing the counter value in the browser, we see this - 

    () => { producerAccessed(node); return node.value; }

And that's not surprising since even though we are using the string interpolation, the value inside those curly brackets ({{}}) is no longer a string. It is a signal. So, we cannot directly output it on the browser like this.

# SIGNAL EQUALITY FUNCTIONS

We can also provide a custom equality function to the signal. This function will then be used to check whether the new value is actually different than the previous one. If the new value is not different, then any consumers of this signal will not be notified.

By default, Angular uses the strict equality operator (===) to check if the new value is different than the previous one. When comparing objects with "===," we’re comparing references, meaning “Are the two variables pointing at the same object?”.

Let's say we want to create a signal that holds an object which has an "id" property. And now, we want to ensure the signal only notifies the consumers when the "id" property changes.

So, we can pass a custom equality function like this -
    
    let currentUser = signal<User>(
        // Some object data here, 
        {
            equal: (u1: User, u2: User) => u1.id === u2.id;
        });

With this approach, the signal doesn’t trigger any updates if we change values that aren’t the "id". So, if we do this in our code - 

    this.currentUser.update(user => ({ ...user, name: 'John Doe' }));

This won't trigger any updates because the "id" property is not changed. So, the signal will not notify any consumers of this change.

Note that Equality functions can be provided to both writable and computed signals.