So far, the counter signal that we created just has a number as its value. But, what about Arrays and Objects as values of a signal?

For that, let's take the example of our current project. In our signals component, we have an array named "actions". So, whenever we click increment or decrement buttons, we are pushing some data to this array. And then, we are using ngFor to output every data on the UI.

So far, Angular is using the default change detection using zone.js to detect changes to this actions array. But, we can use signal here as well.

Let's first convert the variable to a signal. And as an initial value, we will give an empty array.

    actions = signal<string[]>([]);

Note that we are telling Typescript that this signal will have a value of type "Array of strings". This is important otherwise you may face some compilation errors due to mismtaching types.

Now, whenever we want to push data, we cannot directly do actions.push()

Instead, we can use the "update" method here once again. 

So, we can do -

    this.actions.update(prev => [...prev, 'INCREMENT']);

    and 

    this.actions.update(prev => [...prev, 'DECREMENT']);

And now, we have converted the "actions" variable to a signal and we are also updating its value accordingly. 

The only issue now is that inside our template, we are using an ngFor directive to loop over this "actions" variable to output its values. But, since it is now a signal, we can use its "getter" instead.

    <li *ngFor="let action of actions()">{{ action }}</li>

And that's it!

# IMPORTANT NOTE

Note that you can also do something like - 

    this.actions().push('DECREMENT)

But, the issue will be that if there is some "Computed Signal" (Check out sections after this section) which depends on the "actions" signal, that will never get executed. Because, "this.actions().push('DECREMENT)" does not update the signal. It simply updates the array that the signal has. And since the signal itself doesn't get updated, the computed signal method will not run.

That's why, try to use "set" or "update" to update a signal.

Watch this video to understand this - https://youtu.be/wcn_8UnYBEw




