So far, we learnt that we can create a new signal using the "signal()" method that @angular/core provides.

But, there is another way to create a Signal and that is using a method named "computed()" which is also provided by @angular/core.

To understand this one, let's just take an example that in our application, apart from showing the "counter", we also want to show another value which is simply the "double" or the counter value.

Now, without Signals, how would we do it?

Without signals, we would create a new variable, then, whenever increment or decrement happens, we need to update this variable as well because the "counter" gets incremented or decremented.

Now, with Signals, instead of doing this, we can create something called a "Computed Signal".

Computed signals are read-only signals that derive their value from other signals. 

So, let's create a new variable named "doubleCount" which is going to be a computed signal. We can create is using the "compute" method.


    doubleCounter = computed(() => this.counter() * 2)

So, as we can see, compute() takes a function as the argument and in this function, we can do some computation and then set the value for this Comptued Signal. Here, we are taking the current value of the "counter" signal and simply doubling it.

So, here, the "doubleCounter" signal depends on the "counter" signal. And as we know, whenever "signal" value changes, Angular will make changes to all the places where the getter of that signal is being used.

Since we are using the getter here to get the doubleCounter value, whenever "counter" value changes, the "doubleCounter" will also update automatically.

Again, in the template, we can use the getter to read the value of "doubleCounter" - 

    <p> Double Counter: {{ doubleCounter() }}</p>

# COMPUTED SIGNALS ARE LAZILY EVALUATED AND MEMOIZED 

doubleCounter's derivation function does not run to calculate its value until the first time you read doubleCount. The calculated value is then cached, and if you read doubleCount again, it will return the cached value without recalculating.

If you then change count, Angular knows that doubleCount's cached value is no longer valid, and the next time you read doubleCount its new value will be calculated.

As a result, you can safely perform computationally expensive derivations in computed signals, such as filtering arrays.

# COMPUTED SIGNALS ARE NOT WRITEABLE SIGNALS

It is important to understand that you cannot directly set a value for a computed signal.

So, you cannot do -

    doubleCounter.set(20);

This will result in a compilation error because the method set() is simply not available for a Computed Signal. It is only available for "Writable Signals" which are the signals we create using "signal()" method.

And this actually makes sense because we should use "Computed Signals" when we want the value to be derived from other signals.

