Signals are useful because they notify interested consumers when they change. 

An effect is an operation that runs whenever one or more signal values change.

So, let's say that when "counter" signal value changes, we want to maybe console log its value.

In that case, we can use the "effect" function that is provided by @angular/core.

By default you can create an "effect()" within an injection context where you have access to the "inject" function. So, the easiest way to satisfy this requirement is to call "effect()' inside "constructor".

This method takes a function as the argument and whatever code you write in this function, it will run whenever one or more signals change in your components.

    constructor() {
        effect(() =>  {
            console.log("Something changed!")
            console.log("Counter value is", this.counter())
        });
    }

So, when our application loads, we will see that even before we click on increment or decrement buttons, this method runs and we see the text being logged to the console.

This is important to note. Effects always run at least once!

Now, whenever we click on increment or decrement buttons, since counter signal changes, the whole method is run again.

Note that if there is some expensive computation going on inside effects, that doesn't mean it will block the code execution bcause Effects always execute asynchronously, during the change detection process.

Effects are rarely needed in most application code, but may be useful in specific circumstances. Here are some examples of situations where an effect might be a good solution:

    - Logging data being displayed and when it changes, either for analytics or as a debugging tool.
    - Keeping data in sync with window.localStorage.
    - Adding custom DOM behavior that can't be expressed with template syntax.
    - Performing custom rendering to a <canvas>, charting library, or other third party UI library.

# WHEN TO NOT USE EFFECTS

Avoid using effects for propagation of state changes. This can result in ExpressionChangedAfterItHasBeenChecked errors, infinite circular updates, or unnecessary change detection cycles.

Because of these risks, Angular by default prevents you from setting signals in effects. It can be enabled if absolutely necessary by setting the "allowSignalWrites" flag when you create an effect.

Instead, use computed signals to model state that depends on other state.

# CLEANUP FUNCTION

When working with Signal effects, you sometimes might need to perform some cleanup work before the effect function runs again (e.g., to clear some timer or something like that).

Angular's effect() allows you to do that!

It does provide you with an "onCleanup" hook which you can execute as part of your effect function to define what should happen before the effect code runs the next time:

    effect((onCleanup) =>  {
      console.log("Something changed!")
      console.log("Counter value is", this.counter());
      onCleanup(() => {
        console.log("Some Cleanup code Here");
      });
    });

When you create an effect, it is automatically destroyed when its enclosing context is destroyed. This means that effects created within components are destroyed when the component is destroyed. The same goes for effects within directives, services, etc.

If you want to manually destroy an effect, you can do so by calling the "destroy" method on the returned "EffectRef" object of the effect() function -

    const effectRef = effect((onCleanup) =>  {
      console.log("Something changed!")
      console.log("Counter value is", this.counter());
      onCleanup(() => {
        console.log("Some Cleanup code Here");
      });
    });

    effectRef.destroy();

While this may sound like unnecessary work, it is important to note that you can create an effect() which has to be cleaned up manually and which will not be automatically cleaned up when the component is destroyed. We can do this by passing a "manualCleanup" option to the effect() function and set it to true:

    const effectRef = effect((onCleanup) =>  {
      console.log("Something changed!")
      console.log("Counter value is", this.counter());
      onCleanup(() => {
        console.log("Some Cleanup code Here");
      });
    }, {
      manualCleanup: true
    });

    effectRef.destroy(); // This will clean up the effect manually.

The default value for the "manualCleanup" option is false, which means the effect will be cleaned up automatically when the component is destroyed.

But if it is true, it is your responsibility to clean up the effect when you are done with it. And in such cases, we need to use the "destroy" method to clean up the effect manually.

# READING WITHOUT TRACKING DEPENDENCIES

When a signal value changes, any computed() or effect() that depends on it will be re-evaluated. This is called 'tracking'. However, sometimes we want to read a signal value without creating a dependency, i.e., without triggering the reactive function when its value changes. In such cases, we can use the 'untracked' function provided by Angular.

Suppose we have this code -

    effect(() => {
      console.log(`User set to ${currentUser()} and the counter is ${counter()}`);
    });

We want that when 'currentUser' changes, the value of a 'counter' should be logged.

But here, since we are using the 'counter' signal inside the effect, it will create a dependency on the 'counter' signal. So, if we change the value of 'counter', this effect will run again.

Since we want to run this only when 'currentUser' changes, we can use the "untracked" function and pass the "counter" signal to it. You can prevent a signal read from being tracked by calling its getter with untracked -

    effect(() => {
      console.log(`User set to ${currentUser()} and the counter is ${untracked(() => counter())}`);
    });

We can also simplify the code by passing the signal directly to the untrack function:

    effect(() => {
      console.log(`User set to ${currentUser()} and the counter is ${untracked(counter)}`);
    });

Since 'signals' are functions, they can be passed directly, but untrack can wrap functions with more complex behavior:

    effect(() => {
      // ...read signals...
      const a = a();

      untracked(() => {
        this.someMethodThatReadsSignals(a);
      });
    });

Here, inside 'someMethodThatReadsSignals', we might be reading one or more signals. So, without using "untracked", those signals that are being read inside 'someMethodThatReadsSignals' will become a dependency of our "effect.

But since the method is called inside "untracked", any signal reads by 'someMethodThatReadsSignals' won’t be counted as dependencies of this 'effect'.

This can be very helpful, for instance, to avoid infinite loops of signal updates, and it should be a best practice to implement even if such code doesn’t read other signals right now.

For instance, in the above example, 'this.counterService.count()' might not read other signals, but another developer could add signals in that implementation two months from now and have no idea that they created a dependency on an effect in a different part of the application.

So, a recommended way is to use 'untracked' every time a computed function or 'effect' calls external code unless we know that we want to depend on other signals read by such external code.