We know that if we have to pass down a value from the parent component to the child component, we use the @Input() decorator inside the Child Component to do that.

But, after the introduction of Signals, we also have a concept of "Signal Inputs". This feature was originally introduced in Angular 17.1.

# TRADITIONAL APPROACH

Let's say that we want to pass a property "test" from app.component.html to the "signals.component.ts".

Traditionally, this is how we would do that.

First, we define such a property inside the "signals.component.ts" file and annotate it with @Input() decorator - 

    @Input()
    test !: string;

And then, in the app.component.html, we will pass it -

    <app-signals [test]="'Passed from Parent'"></app-signals>

And we can now show this property in the UI inside signals.component.html -

    <p> Value received from Parent -> {{test}}</p>

We can also make this input as "required", which means we have to pass it wherever we use the selector of signals.component.ts.

    @Input({required: true})
    test !: string;

And now, if we do not pass it from app.component.html, we will get an error in the IDE itself.

# SIGNAL INPUTS

Now, let's see how Signal Inputs work.

First, we will no longer use @Input() decorator at all. Instead, we will use the "input" function that is provided by @angular/core. This function takes an argument which is the initial value of the property. If we do not provide it, then the value will be undefined.

    test = input<string>();

And now, this "test" is of type "InputSignal". So, as we know, to use it in our template, we have to call it as a function to get its value.

    <p> Value received from Parent -> {{test()}}</p>

What if we want to make this input as required? Like how we did with @Input().

Well, we can do this - 

    test = input.required<string>();

Note that if an input is required, then you cannot pass an initial value to it because that makes no sense. Since we are explicitly making it required, it means we have to pass a value from the outside and hence, this initial value will never be used at all!

And now, since we are using signal inputs, this means we can derive values from these inputs using "computed".

    derived = computed(() => this.test() + ". Added at the end");

The main advantage is noticeable when you are writing your components in a reactive style, using signals.

Now all your component inputs are themselves signals, so it's very easy to derive computed signals from them, define effects that react to input changes, and so on.

So now with signal inputs it's much easier to write your components in a reactive, signal-based style.

And even with this refactoring, we did not have to change anything in the parent component at all.

Finally, since we are using signals, we can monitor the changes using "effect" function. This function executes whenever the input changes. So, there is no need to use ngOnChanges when we use signal inputs.

Note that Signal Inputs are read only so you cannot change their values using "set" or "update" function.

# ADVANTAGES

    - Signal inputs are more type safe:
        • Required inputs do not require initial values, or tricks to tell TypeScript that an input always has a value.
        • Transforms are automatically checked to match the accepted input values.
    - Signal inputs, when used in templates, will automatically mark OnPush components as dirty.
    - Values can be easily derived whenever an input changes using computed.
    - Easier and more local monitoring of inputs using effect instead of ngOnChanges or setters.