Just like how we have "input()" function as a replacement for the traditional @Input() decorator, we also have the "output()" function as a replacement for the @Output() decorator.

This is a new way to define component outputs and is more type-safe and better integrated with RxJs.

Suppose that we have a button in the "signals.component.html" and when we click it, we want to maybe show an alert.

So, we click it from the child component and we want to pass this information about clicking the button to the parent.

Here is the button inside signals.component.html -

    <button (click)="onClick()">Show Alert</button>

# TRADITIONAL APPROACH

Here is how we will do it traditionally.

Inside the signals.component.ts, we have this output property - 

    @Output()
    btnClicked = new EventEmitter<string>();

And we have this function - 

    onClick() {
    this.btnClicked.emit("Data sent from Child to Parent!");
  }

In the parent app.component.html - 

    <app-signals 
        [test]="'Passed from Parent'" 
        (btnClicked)="showAlert($event)"
    >
    </app-signals>

And this is the function inside app.component.ts -

    showAlert(val: string) {
        alert("Data passed by child is -> " + val);
    }

# USING output() FUNCTION

And now, let's see how we can use output() function to do the same thing.

We do not need to use @Output() decorator anymore - 

    btnClicked = output<string>();

And well, that's it! There is no change required anywhere else because we can still use the "emit" function on this because under the hood, it still uses the EventEmitter only.

This also means that "output()" is not singnal-based like the "input()". Instead, it is just a more type-safe option than the @Output() decorator.

But besides that, one of the advantages is that it provides a much better interoperability with RxJs.

