Before signals, we had two main ways to communicate between two components. First was using @Input and @Output decorators but that would get messy in case where are components way down in the component tree and we have to pass data between the two.

The other way was using Services and using Event Emitters or Subjects to pass data.

Now that we have signals, we can also use "Signals" with Services for communication.

In current project, we can create two new components named "child1" and "child2" in the "singals" folder. The "child1" is simply this -

    <label> This input box is in child1 component </label>
    <input type="text" #text (input)="onInput(text.value)">


And the child2 is simply this -

    <label> This text is in child 2 </label>
    <p>{{text}}</p>

What we want is, as we write the text in the input box in child1, that should show up in child2.

So, how can we do that. What would we do with Services and Subjects? Well, we would simple create a new subject in a service and as we write in the input field, we will use that Subject to emit that value so that any subscribed components get that value.

So, now, instead of a "Subject", we will use a "Signal". Let's create a new service named "data" and then add a new signal in that.

    export class DataService {
  
        submittedValue = signal<string>('');

        constructor() {}

        updateValue(val: string) {
            this.submittedValue.set(val);
        }

    }

Now, when we submit a new value using text box, we will set the value of the signal to that entered value in child1.

    onInput(val: string) {
        this.dataService.updateValue(val);
    }

And in the child2, we can simply consume this value.

    export class Child2Component {
        constructor(private dataService: DataService){}

        text = this.dataService.submittedValue;
    }

And in the child2's html we write -

    <label> This text is in child 2 </label>
    <p>{{text()}}</p>

So, you can see how clean the code is with Signals. With Subjects, we had to subscribe to that subject and then inside that subscription we had to set the value inside some variable and so on. Then we also had to make sure to unsubscribe.

Now, all we do is just call the getter and Angular will take care of the rest.

