In Angular 19, we got the "LinkedSignal" primitive in the Signal API.

Before "LinkedSignal", we had two options to create signals. We could use the "signal" function which created a "Writable Signal", or we could use the "computed" function which created a "Computed Signal".

The "Writable Signal" is a signal whose value can be changed, while the "Computed Signal" is a signal whose value is derived from other signals and cannot be changed directly. And that's why we do not have "set" or "update" methods when we have a signal created using the "computed" function.

Now, we have a third option to create a signal and that's using the "linkedSignal" function.

You can consider it to be an extension of the "computed" signal because this also maintains a reactive relationship with its sources but the main difference is that it is also writable.

Let's say that in our component, we have a list of options that we want to render in a dropdown and this list is a signal in our component -

    options = signal(['Option 1', 'Option 2', 'Option 3']);

Now, we want to create a signal that will hold the selected option from the dropdown and initially, the first option in the list is selected. Here, we can use the "computed" function but we also need to update this "selectedOption" signal when the user selects a different option from the dropdown. And since "computed" signals are read-only, we cannot do that.

So, maybe, we can create a new writable signal like this -

    selectedOption = signal(this.options()[0]);

And so, if we have a method that fires when the user selects a different option from the dropdown, we can update the "selectedOption" signal like this -

    updateSelectedOption(event: any) {
        this.selectedOption.set(event.target.value);
    }
}

This should work fine, right? Well, not 100%.

What happens if the "options" signal changes? For example, if we have a new option added to the list or if we remove one of the existing options? 

Let's say we have a button which, when clicked, adds a new option in the beginning of "options" signal's list -

    addNewOption() {
        this.options.update(prev => ['New Option', ...prev]);
    }

In this case, the "option" signal will still hold the old value and it will not be updated automatically to now have the "New Option" as the default selected value since it is now the first item of "options" signal's list. Because remember that this is not a "computed" signal so it won't react to the changes in the "shippingOptions" signal.

And in such use cases, we can use the new "linkedSignal" function.

So, we can write -

    selectedOption = linkedSignal(() => this.options()[0]);

And now, the "selectedOption" is a linkedSignal which means, not only we can update its value, but if in future the "shippingOptions" signal changes, the "selectedOption" signal will also be updated automatically. That's exactly what we want here.

'linkedSignal' works similarly to signal with one key difference— instead of passing a default value, you pass a computation function, just like computed. When the value of the computation changes, the value of the linkedSignal changes to the computation result. This helps ensure that the 'linkedSignal' always has a valid value.

The above syntax is actually a shorthand for this - 

    selectedOption = linkedSignal({
        source: this.options,
        computation: (options) => options[0]
    })

The "source" can be any signal. By any signal, we mean literally any signal like "computed" or "component input" or anything that is a signal. When the value of "source" changes, the 'linkedSignal' updates its value to the result of the 'computation' function.

# PREVIOUS STATE

The "computation" function doesn't only receive the new value of the "source" signal, but also a "previous" object.

The previous object has two properties — 'previous.source' is the previous value of source, and 'previous.value' is the previous result of the computation. You can use these previous values to decide the new result of the computation.

For example, let's say that in our example, even if the "options" signal changes, if we know that the "selectedOption" is a value that is still present in the "options" signal, then we do not want to reset the "selectedOption" signal to the first value of the "options" signal. We want to keep it as is.

This means, we need to know the previous result of the computation.

And in such cases, we can use the "previous" object.

Suppose, we have a function that adds a new option at the end of the "options" signal's list -

    addNewOptionAtTheEnd() {
        this.options.update(prev => [...prev, 'New Option']);
    }

So, if user has selected some value from the dropdown, then even after adding a new option at the end of the list, we know that the previous options are still present in the list. So, it doesn't make much sense to reset the "selectedOption" signal to the first value of the "options" signal.

At this point, if this method is called, then the "selectedOption" will be reset to the first value of the "options" signal.

We can avoid that using the "previous" object -

    selectedOption = linkedSignal<string[], string>({
        source: this.options,
        computation: (newOptions, previous) => {
        if (previous && newOptions.includes(previous?.value)) { // If the previous value is still present in the new options
            return previous?.value; // Keep the previously selected value
        }
        return newOptions[0]; // Reset to the first value of the new options
        }
    });

As Angular's documentation says - 

    When using the previous parameter, it is necessary to provide the generic type arguments of 'linkedSignal' explicitly. The first generic type corresponds with the type of 'source' and the second generic type determines the output type of 'computation'.

That's why, in the above code, we have provided the generic type arguments of 'linkedSignal' explicitly. -

    linkedSignal<string[], string>

It means, the "source" signal is of type "string[]" and the output type of the "computation" function is of type "string". If you do not provide the generic type arguments explicitly, then Typescript will show an error when you try to use "previous" object by saying -

    Argument of type 'unknown' is not assignable to parameter of type 'string'

The reason is that if we do not explicitly provide the generic type arguments, then this is how Typescript infers the type of the "linkedSignal" - 

    linkedSignal<string[], unknown>

So, the output type of the "computation" function is "unknown" and that's why we get the error when we try to use the "previous" object.

Make sure to provide the generic type arguments explicitly when you are using the "previous" object in the "computation" function.

The last piece of the puzzle is the "equal" property that the "linkedSignal" function accepts. And this is the same thing as providing a custom equality function to the "signal" or the "computed" functions.

Since we have two different ways to define a 'linkedSignal', we have two ways to provide the equality function.

First is like this -

    const activeUser = signal({id: 123, name: 'Morgan', isAdmin: true});

    const activeUserEditCopy = linkedSignal(() => activeUser(), {
        // Consider the user as the same if it's the same `id`.
        equal: (a, b) => a.id === b.id,
    });

And the other way is like this -

    const activeUserEditCopy = linkedSignal({
        source: activeUser,
        computation: user => user,
        equal: (a, b) => a.id === b.id,
    });

And that's the whole idea behind the "linkedSignal" primitive in Signal API.