All the signal APIs that we learnt so far are synchronous, whether it is 'signal', 'computed', 'input' or anything else. But, in a lot of cases, our application has to deal with data that is not available immediately. For example, we might have to fetch some data from the server, or read some data from the local storage.

There is now a way to incorporate 'async' data into our application's signal-based code and that access the data as if it were synchronous.

We can do this using the 'Resource' API. Remember that at this point, this is an experimental API and it is not yet stable.

As Angular's official documentation says, the most common use case of a 'Resource' is to fetch the data from the server. Angular does not recommend using it for the Write operations. The reason is that the purpose of the 'Resource API' is to retrieve data into signals and with POST or PUT requests, we normally do not need to retrieve any data back from the server.

Moreover, a request will get cancelled if the user makes any new change to the parameters that are being used to fetch the data. So, if we have a form where the user can change some parameters and we are fetching the data based on those parameters, then if the user changes any of those parameters while the request is still in progress, the previous request will be cancelled and a new request will be made with the updated parameters. We may not want this behavior for POST or PUT requests.


# CREATING A RESOURCE

The simplest way to create a resource is to use the 'resource' function -

    usersResource = resource({...});

To this function, we pass a configuration object to define how this resource works. For example, what all parameters do we pass and what function has to be called each time some signal updates.

There are two most important parameters that we pass to this object -

    1. params - Defines the reactive computation
    2. loader - Defines an async loader that retrieves the data

For example, we can say -

    dataService = inject(DataService);

    userId = signal(1);

    usersResource = resource({
        params: () => ({id: this.userId()}),
        loader: ({params}) => this.dataService.fetchUser(params)
    });

Here, the 'params' is a function that returns an object. This function will be called whenever any of the signals used inside it updates. In this case, it has a dependency on 'userId' signal. So, whenever the value of 'userId' signal changes, this function will be called and it will return a new object with the updated 'id'.

And whenever the 'params' value changes, the 'loader' function will be called. This function is an async function that takes the 'params' object as an argument and returns a promise that resolves to the data. This 'params' object has the same shape as the object returned by the 'params' function. So, in this case, it will have an 'id' property.

And that's it. That's the basic idea of a resource. Whenever the 'userId' signal changes, the 'params' function will return a new object with the updated 'id', and then the 'loader' function will be called with this new 'params' object, and it will fetch the user data from the server.

Moreover, if the request is still in progress when the 'userId' signal changes again, the previous request will be cancelled and a new request will be made with the updated 'id'. This is one of the key features of the 'Resource API' that it automatically handles the cancellation of previous requests when new requests are made.

Now, let's say we want to display a loading indicator when the data is being fetched, and display the user data once it is available.

# THE RESOURCE REF

First, we need to understand what we get from this 'resource' function.

    interface ResourceRef<T> extends WritableResource<T> {
        hasValue(this: T extends undefined ? this : never): this is ResourceRef<Exclude<T, undefined>>;
        hasValue(): boolean;
        destroy(): void;
    }

If we look at the type, we see that it returns a 'ResourceRef' type which has a 'hasValue' method to check if the resource has a value, and a 'destroy()' method to manually destroy the resource.

It extends the 'WritableResource' type which means it has all the properties from that as well. These include  methods like 'set', 'update', 'reload', 'asReadOnly'. There are also readonly properties including 'value', 'error', 'status', 'isLoading' etc.

So, we can use the 'isLoading' property to display a loading indicator while the data is being fetched. Otherwise, we can display the user data.

    @if (usersResource.isLoading()) {
        <p>Loading...</p>
    } @else {
        <p> User data is {{ userData() | json }}</p>
    }

# RESOURCE STATUS

The 'status' property is of type -

    type ResourceStatus = 'idle' | 'error' | 'loading' | 'reloading' | 'resolved' | 'local';

So, a resource can be in one of these states at any given time.

    1. idle - The resource has no valid request and the loader has not run.
    2. loading - The loader is running as a result of the params value changing.
    3. reloading - The loader is running as a result calling of the resource's 'reload' method.
    4. resolved - The loader has completed.
    5. error - An error occurred while loading the resource.
    6. local - The resource's value has been set locally via .set() or .update()

So, this is also one way to show the loading state. We can check if the 'status' is 'loading' or 'reloading' to show the loading indicator.

    @if (usersResource.status() === 'loading' || usersResource.status() === 'reloading') {
        <p>Loading...</p>
    } @else {
        <p> User data is {{ userData() | json }}</p>
    }

# OTHER PROPERTIES THAT CAN BE PASSED TO 'resource' METHOD

Apart from 'params' and 'loader', we can also pass these optional properties -

    1. defaultValue - The value which will be returned from the resource when a server value is unavailable, such as when the resource is still loading.
    2. equal - Equality function used to compare the return value of the loader.
    3. injector - Override the injector used by the resource.

Now, there is also a 'stream' property but that cannot be used if you use 'loader' property. These two cannot co-exist. Either you can use 'loader' or you can use 'stream' but not both.