In the last section, we learnt the 'resource' method that lets us create a resource that can be used to incorporate async data into your application's signal-based code. So, the primary purpose of the 'Resource API' is to bridge the gap between the asynchronous requests and the synchronous nature of signals.

Now, for basic promise based usage, 'resource' method is a good choice. For example, when using 'fetch' or any other promise-based API.

But in Angular, a lot of times, we work with the 'HttpClient' to make HTTP requests. Angular offers a wrapper around the 'HttpClient' under the 'Resource API' and this wrapper is provided using the 'httpResource' method.

This is the easiest and most flexible option under the 'Resource API'. With 'httpResource', we get the Request status and the response as 'signals'. You can thus use these signals with 'computed', 'effect', 'linkedSignal', or any other reactive API. Because it's built on top of 'HttpClient', 'httpResource' supports all the same features, such as interceptors.

So, how do we use 'httpResource' method? There are various ways to use it, but the most basic one is -

    <TResult = unknown>(url: () => string | undefined, options?: HttpResourceOptions<TResult, unknown>): HttpResourceRef<TResult | undefined>;

So, we can pass a function that returns a string or undefined as the URL, and we can also pass an optional options object. The first argument will be then passed internally to the 'HttpClient' to make the 'GET' request. Remember, this is only for 'GET' requests. The 'HttpResource' is not meant to be used for 'POST', 'PUT', 'DELETE', or any other HTTP methods. It's only for 'GET' requests.

    usersHttpResource = httpResource(() => `https://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com/users/${this.userId()}`);

'httpResource' is reactive, meaning that whenever one of the signal it depends on changes (like userId), the resource will emit a new http request. If a request is already pending, the resource cancels the outstanding request before issuing a new one. Also, 'httpResource' is 'eager' which means that it will immediately make the HTTP request as soon as it's created. You don't have to do anything to trigger the request. This is different from how we use 'HttpClient' which only makes the request when we subscribe to the observable.

And well, that's it. It has all the methods and properties that were available with the 'resource()' method such as 'isLoading', 'value', etc. But, apart from those, it also has these extra readonly signals -

    1. headers - Signal of the response headers, when available.
    2. statusCode - Signal of the response status code, when available.
    3. progress - Signal of the latest progress update, if the request was made with `reportProgress: true`.

The optional object is of type 'HttpResourceOptions' which has these properties -

    1. parse - Transform the result of the HTTP request before it's delivered to the resource. This is a function that takes the response and returns the transformed result. This is useful when you want to transform the response before it's delivered to the resource. For example, if you want to extract a specific property from the response, you can use the 'parse' function to do that. It can be used to validate or transform the type of the resource, and return a more specific type. This is also useful for validating backend responses using a runtime schema validation library such as Zod.
    2. defaultValue - Value that the resource will take when in Idle or Loading states. If not set, the resource will use `undefined` as its default value.
    3. injector - The `Injector` in which to create the `httpResource'.
    4. equal - A comparison function which defines equality for the response value.
    5. debugName - A debug name for the reactive node. Used in Angular DevTools to identify the node


All these are optional properties since the object itself is optional. You can choose to use any of these properties based on your requirements. For example, if you want to transform the response before it's delivered to the resource, you can use the 'parse' function. If you want to set a default value for the resource when it's in Idle or Loading states, you can use the 'defaultValue' property. If you want to provide a custom injector for the resource, you can use the 'injector' property.

# MAKING ADVANCED REQUESTS

Now, what if we want even more control on our HTTP requests? Well, for that, we can call 'httpResource' in a different way by passing it a Request Object, something that we do when we use 'HttpClient'. So, you can do something like -

    user = httpResource(() => ({
        url: `/api/user/${this.userId()}`,
        method: 'GET',
        headers: {
            'X-Special': 'true',
        },
        params: {
            'fast': 'yes',
        },
        reportProgress: true,
        transferCache: true,
        keepalive: true,
        mode: 'cors',
        redirect: 'error',
        priority: 'high',
        cache: 'force-cache',
        credentials: 'include',
        referrer: 'no-referrer',
        integrity: 'sha384-oqVuAfXRKap7fdgcCY5uykM6+R9GhEXAMPLEKEY=',
        referrerPolicy: 'no-referrer',
    }));

This is for cases when you want to set custom headers, or you want to set query parameters, or you want to report progress, or you want to set any other options that are available in the 'HttpClient'. You can pass all those options in the Request Object and 'httpResource' will take care of making the request with those options.

# RESPONSE TYPES

Now, by default, we will get Responses in the JSON format. But, what if we want the responses in other formats such as text or blob or arrayBuffer? Well, we can call 'httpResource' like this as well -

    httpResource.text(() => ({ … })); // returns a string in value()
    httpResource.blob(() => ({ … })); // returns a Blob object in value()
    httpResource.arrayBuffer(() => ({ … })); // returns an ArrayBuffer in value()

And that's all about the 'httpResource' method. It's a powerful and flexible way to make HTTP requests in your Angular applications while still being able to leverage the reactive programming paradigm with signals. But remember, Angular strictly says to use 'httpResource' only for 'GET' requests. For other HTTP methods, you should use the 'HttpClient' directly -

    Avoid using httpResource for mutations like POST or PUT. Instead, prefer directly using the underlying HttpClient APIs.