So far, we have used observables in lot of places.

Wherever we used "subscribe" method we used Observables. We were "subscribing" to an observable and that observable was giving us some data.

But, what are these observables?

It is important to understand that "Observable" is not some feature that "Angular" provides. This is a feature that is provided by a third-party library named "RxJS". 

In simple words, an Observable gives a "stream" of values over time.
Those values can be of any type and they can be emitted by the soruce (SUBJECT) either synchronously or asynchronously.

# REAL-LIFE ANALOGY TO UNDERSTAND THE OBSERVER PATTERN

Let's look at youtube.com for a second. 

You're browsing on youtube and you find a new channel. 

You want to receive notifications anytime some new content is published into that youtube channel, but for that, you'll need to hit the subscribe button first. 

You are the "Observer", consuming the content posted (published) by that youtube channel. This makes the youtube channel the "Observable". 

Another vital aspect to see is the multiplicity of this relationship. There's one youtube channel to many youtube users ("Subscribers").

# WHAT ABOUT PROMISES?

We know that in Javascript/Typescript, the "Promises" are quite commonly used to handle the async code. 

A Promise object implements two main methods that make it easy to handle the result of an async work. These two methods are ".then()" and ".catch()". The "then" method handles the "successful" results and the "catch" method is the error handler.

When the "then" handler return the data, it is called "resolving" a promise, and when it throws the error to "catch" handler, it is called "rejecting".

But there is one important thing to note about Promises.

    **PROMISES CAN ONLY RESOLVE OR REJECT ONCE!**

This works out alright for things like http requests because http requests are fundamentally execute once and return once (success or error).

But, what happens when you want an elegant way to stream async data? Think video, audio, real-time leaderboard data, chat room messages. It would be great to be able to use promises to set up a handler that keeps accepting data as it streams in, something like this -

    // impossible because promises only fire once!
    videoService.streamVideo()
    .then(videoChunk => { // new streaming chunk })

# THE REACTIVE PATTERN

In a nutshell: 

    **Promises are to async single requests, 
    what Observables are to async streaming data.**


An Observable looks something like this - 

    videoService.getVideoStream() // returns observable, not promise
        .subscribe(chunk => {  // subscribe to an observable
            // new chunk
        }, err => {
            // error thrown
    });

One major difference between observables and promises is that the Observables keep "emitting" data into the "subscription" instead of using the single use "then" and "catch" handlers.

Angular's http client library returns observables by default even though you might think http fits the single use promise pattern better. 

But the cool thing about reactive programming (like rxJS) is that you can make observables out of other things like click events, or any arbitrary stream of events. You can then compose these streams together to do some pretty cool stuff.

# WHERE DID WE USE OBSERVABLES SO FAR?

So far, we used the Observables while working with Angular Routing.

Remember how we used to get the Route Parameters? 

There were two ways - One using the snapshot object and the other using an observable.

    this.route.params.subscribe(data => ...)

So, we write this code just once and whenever the route parameters change, the code inside the subscribe method automatically fires.

This means, the observable keeps emitting data on every route parameter change in the URL.

And this same thing was seen with the "queryParams",  "fragment" and "data" observables.


# THREE TYPES OF VALUES OBSERVABLE CAN DELIVER

We usually use observables like this (new syntax) 

    this.abc.subscribe({
        // next block handles what happens when new data is received
        next(data) {},

        // error block handles what happens when error is thrown
        error(err) {},

        // complete block handles what happens when observable completes (if it completes)
        complete() {}
    })


There are three types of values an Observable Execution can deliver:

    "Next" notification: sends a value such as a Number, a String, an Object, etc.
    "Error" notification: sends a JavaScript Error or exception.
    "Complete" notification: does not send a value.


"Next" notifications are the most important and most common type: they represent actual data being delivered to a subscriber. "Error" and "Complete" notifications may happen only once during the Observable Execution, and there can only be either one of them.
