The main reason to use RxJS is "Operators", even though Observables is the foundation.

The "Operators" are the essential pieces that allow complex asynchronous code to be easily composed in a declarative manner.

"Operators" are just functions. 

A simple way to understand it is to think of the data that an Observable gives us once we subscribe to it. We want to get that data in some particular order or maybe filter that data before we use it.

One way is to get the whole data in the Subscription and then manually filter it and then use it.

But, a cleaner way is to do all this filtering at the time when the observable emits the data. That is something we can do using Operators. 

So, you can think of an operator to sit between the Observable and the Subscription such that the data emitted by an Observable first reaches the Operator and then it does something with that data and then sends it to the subscription.

In RxJS, there are two types of Operators - 

## 1. PIPEABLE OPERATORS - 

These are the kind of operators that we can "pipe" to the Observables. For that, we use the syntax as - 

    observableInstance.pipe(operator)

When Pipeable Operators are called, they do not change the existing Observable instance. Instead, they return a new Observable, whose subscription logic is based on the first Observable.

A Pipeable Operator is essentially a pure function which takes one Observable as input and generates another Observable as output. Subscribing to the output Observable will also subscribe to the input Observable.

## 2. CREATION OPERATORS - 

The other kind of operators are "CREATION" operators, which can be called as standalone functions to create a new Observable. 

For example: of(1, 2, 3) creates an observable that will emit 1, 2, and 3, one right after another. 

    import { of } from 'rxjs';
    of(1, 2, 3).subscribe((v) => console.log(`value: ${v}`));

This will log 1, 2, and 3 in the console

We can combine the creation and pipeable operators.

For example, the pipeable operator called "map" is analogous to the Array method of the same name. 

Just as [1, 2, 3].map(x => x * x) will yield [1, 4, 9], the Observable created like this:

    import { of, map } from 'rxjs';
    of(1, 2, 3)
    .pipe(map((x) => x * x))
    .subscribe((v) => console.log(`value: ${v}`));

will emit 1,4,9.

# EXAMPLE IN OUR PROJECT

Let's say that the custom observable that we created which returns us numbers, we want to return a string instead that says like     

    "Round 1" on number 0
    "Round 2" on number 1

And so on.

This is just a basic example and ofcourse we can do this text thing when we get the number after we subscribe. 

But, for more complex calculations, it is always better to do all of that before we get the data from the Observable, using Operators.

So, here, we want to take the data that our original Observable gives and then transform it.

So, it is a good place to use the "map" operator which is a "pipeable" operator.

    const newCustomObs = customIntervalObs.pipe(map((val: number, index) => {
      return "Round " + (val + 1);
    }));

Do note that we defined a new variable because as we understood above, the "pipeable" operators do not tweak the original observable. They simply create a new one. 

This means, if we had done - 

    customIntervalObs.pipe(map((val: number, index) => {
      return "Round " + (val + 1);
    }));


    this.customSub = customIntervalObs.subscribe({
      next: data => console.log(data),
      error: err => console.log(err),
      complete: () => console.log("Observable Completed")
    })


Then it would not have returned us "Round 1", "Round 2" and so on. Because, we are still subscribing to the "customIntervalObs" which remains unchanged even though we used the map operator on it in previous line.

So, we have to subscribe to the new observable that "pipe" returns us.


    const newCustomObs = customIntervalObs.pipe(map((val: number, index) => {
      return "Round " + (val + 1);
    }));

    this.customSub = newCustomObs.subscribe({
      next: data => console.log(data),
      error: err => console.log(err),
      complete: () => console.log("Observable Completed")
    })

And that's how we use a pipeable operator. Always remember to subscribe to the new observable returned by the pipe() method, not the one that pipe() method is attached to.

# HOW MANY ARGUMENTS "PIPE" METHOD CAN TAKE?

There is no restriction on how many operators you can use in pipe() method. You can use as many pipeable operators as you want and they will all be executed one after the other.

For example,

We may want to first filter the data and once the data is filtered, we want to transform the data. So in this case, we will require two different operators -> "filter" and "map". And we can use both of them in the pipe() method as two different arguments.

Suppose, in our code, we want to only emit even numbers.

So, we can add a filter to our observable.

    const newCustomObs = customIntervalObs.pipe(
    filter((val: number) => val % 2 === 0), 
    map((val: number) => "Value emitted is " + val));

And in pipe(), the operators are executed one after the other. So, only once the data is filtered, then the map operator runs.

A good place to learn about all the operators is https://www.learnrxjs.io

Here is another website with interactive diagrams - https://rxmarbles.com/