Apart from Operators, there is another important concept that RxJS has and that's "SUBJECTS".

A "SUBJECT" is a special type of "OBSERVABLE" which sharesd a single execution path among Observers. While plain Observables are unicast (each subscribed Observer owns an independent execution of the Observable), Subjects are multicast.

Subjects are like EventEmitters: they maintain a registry of many listeners.

You can think of this as a single speaker talking at a microphone in a room full of people. Their message (the subject) is being delivered to many (multicast) people (the observers) at once. This is the basis of multicasting. 

# MULTICAST VS UNICAST

To easily understand how Observables are unicast and how Subjects are unicast, let's create an observable that emits a random number.

    const randomNumObs = new Observable(observer => {
      observer.next(Math.random());
    });

Now, let's create two different observers that subscribe to this Observable.

    this.randomNumSub1 = randomNumObs.subscribe(data => {
      console.log("Inside Random Num Sub 1. Data is ", data)
    });

    this.randomNumSub2 = randomNumObs.subscribe(data => {
      console.log("Inside Random Num Sub 2. Data is ", data)
    })

Now, think of what would be logged to the console. 

Do you think the same data will get logged to console?

    Inside Random Num Sub 1. Data is  0.7033464578308533
    Inside Random Num Sub 2. Data is  0.29841485577490956

The answer is NO! 

And that's because of the "UNICAST" nature of the Observables.

When an observer subscribes to an Observable, an "INDEPENDENT" exeuction of that observable is provided. It means, different observers get different runtimes and hence different data stream. Sometimes, we may want this behavior but sometimes we may not.

Now, let's do the same thing with "SUBJECTS".

Let's say we created a subject and there is a button which, when clicked, calls the "next()" method which returns a random number.

    randomNumObs = new Subject<number>();
    buttonClick() {
        this.randomNumObs.next(Math.random());
    }

Now, in ngOnInit, let's say we have two different subscriptions once again. 

    this.randomNumSub1 = this.randomNumObs.subscribe(data => {
      console.log("Inside Random Num Sub 1. Data is ", data)
    });

    this.randomNumSub2 = this.randomNumObs.subscribe(data => {
      console.log("Inside Random Num Sub 2. Data is ", data)
    })

This time, the console log will be having the same data for the two subscriptions - 

    Inside Random Num Sub 1. Data is  0.25902466733549767
    Inside Random Num Sub 2. Data is  0.25902466733549767

And that's because the Subjects are "MULTICAST" which means when there are multiple observers subscribing to the same subject, they all get the same runtime and so the same data.

So, if we are expecting same values in different subscriptions, sometimes using Observables can produce different results.


# EVERY SUBJECT IS AN OBSERVABLE

Given a Subject, you can subscribe to it, providing an Observer, which will start receiving values normally. From the perspective of the Observer, it cannot tell whether the Observable execution is coming from a plain unicast Observable or a Subject.

Internally to the Subject, "subscribe" does not invoke a new execution that delivers values. It simply registers the given Observer in a list of Observers, similarly to how addListener usually works in other libraries and languages.

# EVERY SUBJECT IS AN OBSERVER

It is an object with the methods next(v), error(e), and complete(). To feed a new value to the Subject, just call next(theValue), and it will be multicasted to the Observers registered to listen to the Subject.

# HOW TO USE SUBJECTS?

We use the "new Observable" to create an observable.

Similarly, to create a Subject, we use "new Subject".

    const subject = new Subject<number>();

And now, we can subscribe to this subject.

There can be multiple subscribers to this subject and as a new value gets emitted, all of them get that new value. 

Suppose, we have two different subscribe methods as - 

    subject.subscribe({
    next: (v) => console.log(`observerA: ${v}`),
    });

    subject.subscribe({
    next: (v) => console.log(`observerB: ${v}`),
    });

So, here, we have two different observers. 

Now, let's say we emit two values using the "next" method.

    subject.next(1);
    subject.next(2);

We will see that the console logs this data - 

    observerA: 1
    observerB: 1
    observerA: 2
    observerB: 2

So it means, as the subject emitted "1", both the observers got the data at the same time and that's why, both console logged "1". And same happend when "2" was emitted.

If you think about it, we cannot do this with a normal observable. We cannot emit values using "customObservable.next". 

But, this is something we can do with a Subject because a Subject is both an "Observable" and "Observer". So, no only we can subscribe to it, but we can also use it to emit values.

# EXAMPLE IN OUR PROJECT

A good use case is cross component communication.

We have seen that to communicate between two components, we can use services. 

Let's say in user.component.html, we add a button named "activate" which, when clicked, will show "Activated" text on the app.component.html.

So, in this case, we can use Services for this communication.

We have a user.service.ts file with this one line in it - 

    activatedEmitter = new EventEmitter<boolean>();

And now, in the user.component.ts, we can call this service and emit something.

    onActivateClick() {
        this.isActivated = !this.isActivated;
        this.userService.activatedEmitter.emit(this.isActivated);
    }

And now, in the app.component.ts, we just need to subscribe to this - 

    <!-- Inside the html file -->
    <p *ngIf="userActivated"> Activated! </p>


    <!-- Inside the .ts file -->
    ngOnInit() {
        this.userService.activatedEmitter.subscribe(data => {
        this.userActivated = data;
        })
    }

But, since now we know that we have Subjects in RxJS, we can do the same thing using Subjects and this is also the recommended approach in such a scenario where we need to communicate between two components. 

Because at any time, we can manually "emit" values from Subjects and whatever component is subscribed to those Subjects, it will receive the latest emitted value.

# USING A SUBJECT

So, instead of Event Emitter, we will create a Subject in the user.service.ts file - 

    activatedEmitter = new Subject<boolean>();

Now, inside user.component.ts, instead of using "emit" we will use "next" to emit some data using this Subject -

    onActivateClick() {
        this.isActivated = !this.isActivated;
        this.userService.activatedEmitter.next(this.isActivated);
    }

And finally, the app.component.ts code remains unchanged because we subscribe to the Subjects in the same way as we do to the Event Emitters.

    ngOnInit() {
        this.userService.activatedEmitter.subscribe(data => {
        this.userActivated = data;
        })
  }


The main thing to note is that an Observable is "passive" which means, to emit any data, we can only do that inside of an Observable when we create it. 

But, a Subject is "active" meaning that we can use the "next()" method to emit a data from outside of the creation of Subject.

So, Subjects are perfect to use as Event Emitters instead of using "Event Emitters" themselves. Another advantage is that Subjects are Observables so we have access to all the operators too.

And as always, make sure you unsubscribe to Subjects when you don't need them.

    ngOnInit() {
    this.activatedSub = this.userService.activatedEmitter.subscribe(data => {
      this.userActivated = data;
        })
    }
    
    ngOnDestroy(): void {
        this.activatedSub.unsubscribe();
    }

NOTE THAT WHEN WE USE @OUTPUT(), THEN WE ONLY USE EVENT EMITTERS THERE. WE CANNOT USE SUBJECTS THERE.

Only use Subjects to communicate between components using Services

