Angular 16 brought a new (for Angular) reactivity primitive, and Angular Signals will be, unavoidably, compared to Observables. 

So, what are the differences?

"Signals always have a value". Observables can emit their values synchronously or asynchronously. Signals don’t emit anything, a consumer should “pull” their value when needed, and some value will always be (synchronously) returned.

Signals are always "synchronous" which means they should be able to return a value. And so, we cannot use operators like "forkJoin", "concat", "debounceTime", "switchMap", and so on when we are using Signals.

# WHEN TO USE WHICH?

Observables are great to manage events and streamed data.

Signals are great to manage the application state.

# CONVERTING SIGNALS TO OBSERVABLES

We can even convert Signals to Observables.

Let's say we have the following signal -

    count = signal(0);

To convert it to an Observable, we simply need to call the "toObservable" function that is imported from "@angular/core/rxjs-interop". Then, we just need to pass this signal to this function

    toObservable(this.count)

It is important to note that "toObservable" must be called in an injection context. That is, in the place where you can normally "inject" values. For example, in the constructor or declare it as a property of a component.

So, we can either write -

    export class AppComponent {
        count = signal(0);
        count$ = toObservable(this.count);
    }

Or -

    export class AppComponent {
        count = signal(0);
        count$: Observable<number>;

        constructor() {
            this.count$ = toObservable(this.count);
        }
    }

If you try to use it in some other place in the component, then your app will throw an error in the browser console - 

    RROR RuntimeError: NG0203: toObservable() can only be used within an injection context such as a constructor, a factory function, a field initializer, or a function used with `runInInjectionContext`.

What if we want to use it inside ngOnInit? Well, in that case, we have to explicitly pass the "injector" in this "toObservable" function - 

    count = signal(0);
    count$: Observable<number>;

    private injector = inject(Injector);

    ngOnInit() {
        this.count$ = toObservable(this.count, {injector: this.injector});
    }

# CONVERTING OBSERVABLES TO SIGNALS

Just like how we can convert Signals to Observables, we can also convert Observables to Signals.

There is a method named "toSignal" that is provided by the same "@angular/core/rxjs-interop" package.

It takes an Observable as input and gives a "Signal" as output -

    interval$ = interval(1000);
    intervalSignal: Signal<number>;

    constructor(private userService: UserService) {
        this.intervalSignal = toSignal(this.interval$);
    }

Or we can use it in any other place by explicitly passing the injector - 

    ngOnInit() {

        this.intervalSignal = toSignal(this.interval$, {
        injector: this.injector
        });
    }
If you don't provide an initial value, the resulting signal will return undefined until the Observable emits. 

We can set an initial value for this signal that is returned by this "toSignal" method like this -

    this.intervalSignal = toSignal(this.interval$, {
      injector: this.injector,
      initialValue: 1
    });

If an Observable used in "toSignal" produces an error, that error is thrown when the signal is read.

If an Observable used in "toSignal" completes, the signal continues to return the most recently emitted value before completion.

"toSignal" will automatically unsubscribe to the observable if the component in which you have used it is destroyed. You can disable this behavior using the "manualCleanup" property of the "toSignal" which you have to set to "true" if you want to disable the behavior.

You can read more about this "rxjs-interop" library here - https://angular.dev/ecosystem/rxjs-interop