So, as we have seen so far, it takes some time to break the application into different modules, then decide what to import and export. There is just a lot of boilerplate code that we have to write.

Let's now convert the "Details" Component into a Standalone component.

# HOW TO CREATE A STANDALONE COMPONENT OR CONVERT EXISTING ONE

Well, there is no rocket science here.

We still have the same code as before but we just add one extra property to the @Component decorator which is named "standalone". And we set this to true.

@Component({
  selector: 'app-details',
  templateUrl: './details.component.html',
  styleUrls: ['./details.component.css'],
  standalone: true <- HERE
})
export class DetailsComponent {}

And now, the "DetailsComponent" is a standalone component.

But, now, our application will throw an error saying - 

    Component DetailsComponent is standalone, and cannot be declared in an NgModule. Did you mean to import it instead?

And this is something we did discuss before. That is, whenever a component is standalone, it cannot be declared in any NgModule. And even if we try to do that, Angular will throw an error.

So, now that "DetailsComponent" is standalone, we need to remove the declaration inside the Module file.

Since it is inside the App Module file, we will simply remove it from the declarations array.

And now, the error is gone. But now, there is another problem.

# THE COMPONENT IS NOT RENDERING ON THE BROWSER

When we remove the declaration from the App Module, the error goes away but now, the "Details" component is not even showing up on the page. 

And what's also interesting is that there is no error in the console as well so we cannot figure out what is the issue here.

We are using this "Details Component" inside the "welcome.component.html" by its selector -

    <app-details></app-details>

But, Angular does not yet know which component it is because since we now have converted it to a standalone component, it is no longer registered in any NgModule. And as we know, an NgModule is the place from where Angular knows about the components, services, pipes and directives in our app.

But now that we can no longer add the DetailsComponent to AppModule, what should we do?

# HOW ABOUT USING "imports" PROPERTY OF @Component?

One more way can be to use the "imports" property of @Component decorator. 

If we do - 

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-welcome',
        templateUrl: './welcome.component.html',
        imports: [DetailsComponent]
    })
    export class WelcomeComponent {}

Then again, Angular will throw a new error. This time, we get - 

    imports' is only valid on a component that is standalone.

This means, "imports" property can only be used on those Components that are standalone. And here, WelcomeComponent is not a standalone component. So, we cannot use this property here.

# HOW TO USE STANDALONE COMPONENTS INSIDE NON-STANDALONE COMPONENTS

So, does this mean that we cannot use Standalone Components and Non-Standalone Components together? Well, no! Because, if that was the case then the whole application would require a complete overhaul before it starts working propertly and we will need to convert each and every component, pipe, directive etc into standalone.

Sometimes, we just need to convert a few components to Standalone Components and use them in other components that are not standalone.

So, in that case, we have to "import" the standalone component inside the "NgModule". Note that we have to "import" not "declare". So, we add the standalone component to the "imports" array of NgModule.

And so, in the AppModule, we add the "Details" Component to the "imports" array.

    @NgModule({
        declarations: [AppComponent, WelcomeComponent],
        imports: [BrowserModule, SharedModule, DetailsComponent],
        providers: [],
        bootstrap: [AppComponent],
    })
    export class AppModule {}

And now, the application will start working as it was before!

This should also give you an idea of how Angular now treats the "Details Component" as something separate from the App Module. So, we have to manually import it in App Module if other components want to use it and they are not already Standalone.

# ISSUE WITH HIGHLIGHT DIRECTIVE

The only issue now is that our HighlightDirective is not working as expected. This directive is used in "DetailsComponent" but it is no longer working.

The issue is that the "HighlightDirective" is a part of "SharedModule". "SharedModule" is imported by "AppModule". And since DetailsComponent is now a standalone component, it cannot make use of the imports of "AppModule".

Also, we cannot import the "HighlightDirective" inside the "DetailsComponent" because "HighlightDirective" is not standalone yet. 

So, the only way at this point is to import the whole "SharedModule" inside DetailsComponent. 

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-details',
        templateUrl: './details.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./details.component.css'],
        standalone: true,
        imports: [SharedModule] <- HERE
    })

And that's it. Now there shouldn't be any issues.

Now, if you think about it, there is no reduction of code from App Module because even though we removed it from declarations, we still added it in imports. 

But, this is only because we are still migrating our application to use Standalone Components. Later, as we keep converting all the components, directives and pipes into Standalone, we will no longer require an NgModule at all because then, we can directly import one component into other using the "imports" property of @Component decorator.

