As we discussed earlier, when we say "Standalone Components", it also refers to "Directives" and "Pipes".

In our project, we have a "HighlightDirective" which is not a standalone directive yet. But, as we see, it is only used in one component - Details Component. And Details Component is already a standalone component.

So, it makes no sense to keep the Highlight Directive as Non Standalone as we can also convert it to Standalone now.

The process is the same. We just need to use the "standalone" property of the @Directive decorator and set it to true.


    @Directive({
        selector: '[appHighlight]',
        standalone: true <- HERE
    })
    export class HighlightDirective {}

And again, this now means "HighlightDirective" cannot be declared in any NgModule. Right now, we are declaring it in Shared Module but this declaration now needs to be removed. And the same with the export.

So now, our Shared Module just looks like this -

    @NgModule({
        declarations: [],
        exports: [],
    })
    export class SharedModule {}

This means the shared module is no longer needed at all because it does not export anything at all. So, we can remove the Shared Module file.
    
And finally, in the "DetailsComponent", we can now import the "HighlightDirective" directly.

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-details',
        templateUrl: './details.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./details.component.css'],
        standalone: true,
        imports: [HighlightDirective] <- HERE
    })

And now you can see how we got rid of a whole NgModule just by converting the Components or Directives or Pipes into Standalone.

Now, you can practice and convert the "Welcome Component" to "Standalone". Just keep these things in mind - 

    1. Welcome Component uses Details Component in its template
    2. Welcome Component is used in App Component
    3. App Component is not Standalone