The last component now left to convert to Standalone is the "App Component", which is also the Root Component of our application.

So, let's try to convert it into a Standalone component.

So first, we add the "standalone" flag and set it to True.

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
        standalone: true <- HERE
    })

Now, this component needs to be removed from the declaration inside App Module.

And since app component uses the "Welcome Component" in its HTML, we need to import WelcomeComponent inside AppComponent.

    @Component({
        selector: 'app-root',
        templateUrl: './app.component.html',
        styleUrls: ['./app.component.css'],
        standalone: true,
        imports: [WelcomeComponent]
    })

And now, the App Module looks like this -

    @NgModule({
        declarations: [],
        imports: [BrowserModule],
        providers: [],
        bootstrap: [AppComponent],
    })
    export class AppModule {}

But now, the Angular Compiler will throw an error saying that -

    The `AppComponent` class is a standalone component, which can not be used in the `@NgModule.bootstrap` array. Use the `bootstrapApplication` function for bootstrap instead

This means, we cannot add a standalone component inside "bootstrap" array. As we know this "bootstrap" array is used to tell Angular what is the first component to load when the application loads.

So, now that we cannot use the AppComponent in bootstrap array, we have to remove it. But now, how to tell Angular what is the bootstrap component?

For that, as the error message says, we use the "bootstrapApplication" function instead. But where?

We use it in main.ts file. 

Right now, in main.ts, we have this - 

    platformBrowserDynamic().bootstrapModule(AppModule)
    .catch(err => console.error(err));

This means, we bootstrap our application using the AppModule, which is something we do in traditional Angular apps that don't have the root component as standalone.

But now, we no longer want to bootstrap using the AppModule. So, we remove this piece of code and instead, we add this in main.ts - 

    bootstrapApplication(AppComponent);

And if you hover over the "bootstrapApplication" method, your IDE will show - 

    Bootstraps an instance of an Angular application and renders a root component.

    Note: the root component passed into this function must be a standalone one (should have the standalone: true flag in the @Component decorator config).

So, this method is specifically made to bootstrap an application using a Standalone Root Component.

And now, we can get rid of the App Module as well. 

And so finally, our application now has all the components as Standalone Components and there is no NgModule now in it.

NOTE - If you are wondering what about "BrowserModule", then that's taken care of by the "bootstrapApplication" method. BrowserModule providers are automatically included when starting an application with bootstrapApplication().